ASRS Database Report Set Bird or Animal Strike Reports Report Set Description A sampling of reports referencing a bird or animal strike incident. Update Number .......25.0 Date of Update.. ..Februmy 28, 2018 Number of Records in Report Set — 50 Number of New Records in Report Set...............30 Type of Records in Report Set For each update, new records received at ASRS will displace a like number of the oldest records in the Report Set, with the objective of providing the fifty most recent relevant ASRS Database records. Records within this Report Set have been screened to assure their relevance to the topic.
National Aeronautics and Space Administration Ames Research Center Moffett Field, CA 94035-1000 TH: 262-7 MEMORANDUM FOR: Recipients of Aviation Safety Reporting System Data SUBJECT: Data Derived from ASRS Reports The attached material is furnished pursuant to a request for data from the NASA Aviation Safety Reporting System (ASRS). Recipients of this material are reminded when evaluating these data of the following points. ASRS reports are submitted voluntarily. The existence in the ASRS database of reports concerning a specific topic cannot, therefore, be used to infer the prevalence of that problem within the National Airspace System. Information contained in reports submitted to ASRS may be amplified by further contact with the individual who submitted them, but the information provided by the reporter is not investigated further. Such information represents the perspective of the specific individual who is describing their experience and perception of a safety related event. After preliminary processing, all ASRS reports are de-identified and the identity of the individual who submitted the report is permanently eliminated. All ASRS report processing systems are designed to protect identifying information submitted by reporters; including names, company affiliations, and specific times of incident occurrence. After a report has been de-identified, any verification of information submitted to ASRS would be limited. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration and its ASRS current contractor, Booz Allen Hamilton, specifically disclaim any responsibility for any interpretation which may be made by others of any material or data furnished by NASA in response to queries of the ASRS database and related materials. Linda J. Connell, Director NASA Aviation Safety Reporting System
CAVEAT REGARDING USE OF ASRS DATA Certain caveats apply to the use of ASRS data. All ASRS reports are voluntarily submitted, and thus cannot be considered a measured random sample of the full population of like events. For example, we receive several thousand altitude deviation reports each year. This number may comprise over half of all the altitude deviations that occur, or it may be just a small fraction of total occurrences. Moreover, not all pilots, controllers, mechanics, flight attendants, dispatchers or other participants in the aviation system are equally aware of the ASRS or may be equally willing to report. Thus, the data can reflect reporting biases. These biases, which are not fully known or measurable, may influence ASRS information. A safety problem such as near midair collisions (NMACs) may appear to be more highly concentrated in area "A" than area "B" simply because the airmen who operate in area "A" are more aware of the ASRS program and more inclined to report should an NMAC occur. Any type of subjective, voluntary reporting will have these limitations related to quantitative statistical analysis. One thing that can be Imown from ASRS data is that the number of reports received concerning specific event types represents the lower measure of the true number of such events that are occurring. For example, if ASRS receives 881 reports of track deviations in 2010 (this number is purely hypothetical), then it can be known with some certainty that at least 881 such events have occurred in 2010. With these statistical limitations m mind, we believe that the real power of ASRS data is the qualitative information contained in report narratives. The pilots, controllers, and others who report tell us about aviation safety incidents and situations in detail — explaining what happened, and more importantly, why it happened. Using report narratives effectively requires an extra measure of study, but the knowledge derived is well worth the added effort.
Report Synopses
ACN:1507286 (lof50) Synopsis Air Carrier flight crew reported a bird strike during departure. ACN:1503954 (20f50) Synopsis A319 Captain reported a person was observed walking along and exiting the left side of the runway during takeoff roll. ACN: 1501472 (30f50) Synopsis B737 flight crew reported hitting a flock of birds shortly after takeoff. Immediatly after contact they experienced some abnormal engine indications, so they decided to return to the departure airport. ACN:1496047 (40f50) Synopsis B737NG flight crew reported returning to departure airport after experiencing a bird strike at 800 feet AGL on initial climb. ACN: 1495522 (50f50) Synopsis CRJ-700 flight crew reported damage to the left wing from an encounter with migratory geese at 7,000 ft. ACN•. 1490666 (60f50) Synopsis 3737-700 flight crew reported diverting due to System A hydraulic failure. ACN: 1490078 (70f50) Synopsis Air carrier flight crew reported encountering multiple bird strikes shortly after takeoff from SFO resulting in spurious flight instrument indications. After dumping fuel, a return to the departure airport was safely accomplished. ACN: 1487708 (80f50) Synopsis
PA28 pilots reported that during landing rollout, a deer walked in front of the aircraft and was struck by the propeller. ACN: 1481106 (90f50) Synopsis Air Carrier Captain reported that a cleaning crew saw a snake under the Captain's rudder pedals and was unable to capture it. The aircraft was rejected. ACN: 1480719 (100f50) Synopsis B737-700 flight crew reported a bird strike after takeoff which resulted in damage to the right engine and return to departure airport. ACN: 1473349 (11 Synopsis B757 pilot reported a TCAS RA on final with an aircraft that the tower knew about but did not issue as traffic. ACN•. 1468377 (120f50) Synopsis 3737-800 crew reported a bird strike on departure from DCA which resulted in a loud squeal and a diversion. ACN: 1467539 (130f50) Synopsis MD80 pilot reported a bird strike on rotation that led to engine surges, odor, and smoke in the cabin. ACN: 1465118 (140f50) Synopsis A Maintenance Technician reported that maintenance took a delay because of the required inspection for a bird strike was not accomplished per work cards. ACN: 1464212 (150f50) Synopsis GA flight instructor reported being surprised by skydivers while in the pattern at Mulino State Airport after requesting information several times over the C TAF frequency. ACN: 1463768 (160f50)
Synopsis 3737 flight crew reported a bird strike on climbout that resulted in momentary power reduction. After an overweight landing, the crew encountered locked brakes. ACN: 1460855 (170f50) Synopsis CRJ 200 flight crew reported accidentally deploying the passengers oxygen masks after being distracted by a mosquito in the cockpit. ACN: 1458832 (180f50) Synopsis A319 Captain reported returning to departure airport after birds were ingested into Number I engine shortly after takeoff, resulting in catastrophic engine failure. ACN: 1455601 (190f50) Synopsis 3737-800 flight crew reported returning to departure airport after ingesting birds into the right engine. ACN: 1453118 Synopsis 3737 flight crew reported an engine failure on takeoff due to a bird strike. After the crew accomplished checklist items, a successful single engine approach and landing was made. ACN: 1452148 (21 of50) Synopsis A319 First Officer reported that during climb they lost the Flight Director and the Autopilot disconnected due to multiple system failures. ACN: 1450291 Synopsis Europa XS pilot reported a gear up landing as a result of being distracted by a near bird strike and the lack of a landing gear warning system. ACN: 1445021 (23 of50) Synopsis Air carrier flight crew reported being struck by lightning on descent to ROA. Evidence of a bird strike was also noted after landing.
ACN:1443851 (240f50) Synopsis ORD Local Controller reported issuing an aircraft a go-around was then issued nonstandard go-around instructions by the Departure Controller. ACN: 1437095 (250f50) Synopsis 3737 flight crew reported they were informed of possible damage near the top of the vertical stabilizer. After maintenance examination, the aircraft was taken out of service. ACN:1426769 (260f50) Synopsis BE40 Captain reported a bird strike in the number 1 engine while on downwind at an uncontrolled airport. Landing on one engine was accomplished shortly after. ACN: 1417841 (270f50) Synopsis Boeing 737 flight crew encountered a flock of geese at 1,000ft. The Captain maneuvered to avoid the birds and ended up high and left of the ILS. During his correction, the crew got a sink rate call out and continued to land in an un-stabilized approach condition. ACN:1415233 (28 of50) Synopsis 8767-300 First Officer reported departing on an unused available runway to avoid exceeding their hold over time. In doing so, the crew encountered a flock of birds and returned to departure airport as a precaution. ACN: 1409596 Synopsis 3737-800 Captain reported returning to the departure airport after noticing vibration in climb. On the ground, Maintenance reported "major core damage" to the #1 engine from a bird strike. ACN: 1409294 (300f50) Synopsis 3737-800 First Officer reported a possible bird strike at 2,000 feet in the left engine during climb out causing a popping noise and some vibration. An odor is also detected and the crew elected to return to the departure airport.
ACN:1407062 (31 of50) Synopsis While taxiing for takeoff, one wing of a light twin struck a ground worker who was apparently cutting weeds around a taxi light. The pilot stopped and shutdown the aircraft to check on the individual. The individual was face down, but recovered to stand erect, and he knew his name and the date. An ambulance was summoned for the injured worker. ACN: 1404878 (320f50) Synopsis 8737 flight crew reported a bird strike with about 20 pigeons while on short final to BUR. ACN: 1404256 (330f50) Synopsis A320 First Officer reported a return to the departure airport after sustaining damage to the #1 engine and #2 pack inlet door. ACN:1403252 (340f50) Synopsis 3737-800 flight crew reported returning to departure airport after experiencing multiple bird strikes on departure. After landing "significant damage" was found to the right engine cowl and fan blades. ACN: 1401353 (350f50) Synopsis Air carrier flight crew reported returning to departure airport due to a bird strike shortly after takeoff that resulted in failure of the left engine. ACN: 1400331 (360f50) Synopsis 3737-800 First Officer reported returning to departure airport after experiencing increased vibration associated with ingesting a large bird into #1 engine. ACN:1399956 (370f50) Synopsis A321 Captain reported returning to the departure airport after experiencing a bird strike on initial climb. ACN: 1394633 (380f50)
Synopsis 3737 flight crew reported a bird strike below 1,000 feet on departure which caused a momentary compressor stall before resuming normal operation. Flight returns to the departure airport for an overweight landing. ACN•. 1394074 (390f50) Synopsis 3737-800 First Officer reported while at VI speed encountered a bird strike so they aborted the takeoff. ACN•. 1393901 (400f50) Synopsis ERJ-170 Captain noted a dog had been loaded in the aft cargo bin. Because the animal would freeze in that pit during flight, he had ramp personnel move the dog to the forward cargo pit and alerted the ramp personnel that animals must always be put in the forward hold. ACN: 1389168 (41 of50) Synopsis 3757-200 Captain reported receiving a TE FLAP DISAGREE message on approach. On the ground, evidence of a bird strike on the flaps was noted. ACN: 1389136 (420f50) Synopsis 3737 Captain reported a bird strike that damaged the #1 engine while on approach in IMC ACN•. 1388837 (430f50) Synopsis 3737 First Officer reported the #1 engine and some leading edge devices were damaged from a bird strike on approach. ACN: 1385369 (440f50) Synopsis PA-28 pilot reported his wing was damaged as a result of an inflight goose strike. ACN: 1379132 (450f50) Synopsis
CE-560 pilot reported returning to the departure airport after shutting down the left engine because of low oil pressure following a bird strike shortly after takeoff. ACN: 1375987(460f50) Synopsis CRJ200 First Officer reported a bird strike on takeoff on the Captain's windscreen. The Captain did not call positive rate and the First Officer did not call gear up. The gear was discovered to still be down at 15000 feet and was then retracted. ACN: 1367176 (470f50) Synopsis 3757 flight crew reported rejecting the takeoff after experiencing a bird strike at approximately 100 kts. ACN: 1367101(480f50) Synopsis Tulsa Radar Controller reported of an unsafe situation when he turned an aircraft too soon and did not avoid a parachute operation. Pilot reported after landing that it was, "the closest he has come to parachute jumping. " ACN: 1366578 (490f50) Synopsis Air carrier flight crew reported a breakdown in communications with the ground pushback crew during the disconnect phase. ACN: 1365638 (500f50) Synopsis Air taxi flight crew reported a bird strike while taking off from MAZ. They indicated that the bird hazard at this airport is significant and needs to be mitigated.
Report Narratives
Time / Day Date : 201712 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : OAK.Airport State Reference : CA Altitude.MSL.SingIe Value : 2000 Environment Light : Dawn Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : NCT Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Large Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Climb Route In Use.SID : OAKLAND TWO Airspace.CIass C : OAK Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Function.FIight Crew : First Officer Qualification Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (AT P) Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 318 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 5600 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1507286 Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP)
ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1507294 Human Factors : Distraction Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Bird / Animal Detector. Person : Observer Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action Result.Aircraft : Aircraft Damaged Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Primary Problem : Environment - Non Weather Related Narrative: 1 I was PM (Pilot Monitoring). Captain was PF (Pilot Flying). We have flown many times together. We departed on the OAK 2 Departure. We were delayed at the gate but I don't believe that manifested itself as a causal factor in the bird strike. We leveled off at 2000 ft as we checked in with NorCal Departure. NorCal told us that one mile in front of us there might be traffic. The Controller was getting a non-reporting return. We did not acquire any traffic. Controller reported us clear and instructed us to climb unrestricted to FL190. We put 19,000 ft in the altitude and initiated a climb. Just as the climb started, we passed through a flock of birds that were not discernible until they were right in front of us. They were brown in color and, for the moment I saw them, appeared smaller than Water Fowl; maybe Finch to Crow size. We knew we had at least one strike, audible. We suspected more. Aircraft performed normally on controls. Engine indications remained entirely normal. No abnormal odor. Captain remained PF. I relayed to ATC the bird strike. I then referred to the QRH (no guidance), AOM (Aircraft Operating Manual) Non Normal bird strikes, and [other manuals] guidance. We contacted Dispatch with notification of the strike. About this time, Non-rev Pilot in back communicated that there was a large dent in the number 2 nacelle leading edge. Captain kept control. Using security protocol, I went to Passenger compartment and observed damage. Baseball-Softball sized dent leading edge number 2 nacelle. The dent contour suggested that the bird remains went over nacelle not thru the engine. We took photos. We reviewed photos on flight deck and, given good engine ops and no other observed damage we elected to continue. Safe, uneventful flight, approach, and landing. Upon post flight inspection, we observed a softball size hole in the leading edge of the FO (First Officer) side horizontal stabilizer. This was a location of another strike. We could not observe this location in flight and, since the aircraft was operating entirely normally, we had no reason to suspect significant further damage on aircraft. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis Air Carrier flight crew reported a bird strike during departure.
Time / Day Date : 201712 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : RNO.Airport State Reference : NV Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : RNO Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : A319 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Takeoff Airspace.CIass C : RNO Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Experience.Flight Crew. Total : 12046 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 5611 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying 1503954 Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 14728 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 8707 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1504373 Events
Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Security Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Person / Animal / Bird Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airport Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Airport Narrative: 1 Well into takeoff roll, above 100 knots, I observed a person exiting the left side of the runway. The person was well clear Of the left wingtip and I took no evasive action to avoid the person. Once safely airborne, the Captain reported the position of the person to RNO tower. Narrative: 2 On takeoff roll out of RNO (16R-First Officer flying), I noticed a young man walking along the edge of the runway while we were rolling down the runway. After liftoff, I reported it to the tower, and they diverted the other landing aircraft to runway 16L. Not really sure what this guy was doing walking on the runway, or what his intentions were. Synopsis A319 Captain reported a person was observed walking along and exiting the left side of the runway during takeoff roll.
Time / Day Date : 201711 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 500 Environment Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8737-700 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Climb Flight Phase : Initial Climb Airspace.CIass C : ZZZ Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.Flight Crew : Captain Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1501472 Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Function.FIight Crew : First Officer Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1501499
Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Bird / Animal Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Returned To Departure Airport Result.Flight Crew : Diverted Result.Flight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Result.FIight Crew : Landed As Precaution Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Result.Aircraft : Aircraft Damaged Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Primary Problem : Environment - Non Weather Related Narrative: 1 On initial climbout, we encountered an enormous flock of very large birds. At least one bird was engulfed in the number 2 engine and another struck the left retractable Landing light. We heard loud impacts of birds on both sides of the aircraft and noticed an immediate airframe vibration noise coming from the right side (number 2 engine). The number 1 engine seemed to not suffer damage and appeared to be operating normally. I was the Pilot Flying (PF), and lowered the nose to continue a shallow climb. This allowed me to reduce the thrust on the number 2 engine to reduce the vibration. At this reduced thrust setting, Vibration on the engine instruments indicated 2.4 on the number 2, and 0.7 on the number 1 engine (which was running at a much higher thrust setting). We didn't have much excess airspeed as we were very light out, but we continued a shallow climb allowing the aircraft to slowly accelerate as well. We notified Tower that we were returning to the field. I called the Flight Attendants and told them we were returning to [departure airport]. I didn't have time to notify the Passengers as we were quite busy. We were given a left turn to a heading of 010 and an altitude of 2000'. At that point we were climbing through 2300' so I descended back down to 2000'. Because of our close proximity to [the parallel runway] (the closer runway along our northern downwind track), we initially requested [a different runway] (for a more normal turn radius). However, there was Company traffic on a 10 mile final, so I requested [the parallel runway] and we widened our downwind leg some (to afford a normal turn to the closer the parallel runway]). I operated the number 2 engine close to flight idle to reduce the airframe vibration. We utilized the FMC computed landing speeds, with Flap 30 and auto brakes 2. Our weight at this time was 111,000 pounds. Aside from the vibration coming from the number 2 engine, and the smell of cooked bird, we had no other abnormal indications. We configured the aircraft for landing, completed the Before Landing Checklist and made an uneventful landing. After we turned off the runway, I shut number 2, we started the APU, and taxied back to the gate we just departed. Narrative: 2 Emergency vehicles and Personnel followed and met aircraft at gate along with Maintenance. We advised Passengers after returning to the gate on the ground. Synopsis
3737 flight crew reported hitting a flock of birds shortly after takeoff. Immediatly after contact they experienced some abnormal engine indications, so they decided to return to the departure airport.
Time / Day Date : 201711 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 800 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8737-800 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Takeoff Airspace.Class B : ZZZ Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 9010 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1496047 Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Function.FIight Crew : Captain Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 9630 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1496064 Events
Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Smoke / Fire / Fumes / Odor Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Weight And Balance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Bird / Animal Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.General : Maintenance Action Result.Flight Crew : Landed As Precaution Result.FIight Crew : Returned To Departure Airport Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 There was no weather or bird activity reported in the area. Previous aircraft that departed did not report any birds in the vicinity of the airport. We began the takeoff roll in VFR conditions. At positive climb rate I called for gear up. Shortly after the gear came up and at approximately 800 feet AGL, I heard a loud bang and felt a slight yaw to the left. Auto pilot was not engaged and the auto throttle was engaged. No rudder input was required to maintain our flight path. I immediately scanned the engine instruments to verify that they were both operating normally. No abnormal engine indications were noted, and the plane was flying normal. Both the Captain and I noticed a burnt smell in the aircraft and assumed we had a bird strike. The Captain [advised ATC] and requested vectors for an immediate return to the airport. Tower informed us that they saw smoke come from the engine, but seemed to be normal. We were directed to climb to 4000 feet and vectored for a left downwind. All indications were normal and the aircraft was handling normally. Once the autopilot was engaged, the Captain accomplished the after takeoff checklist, and I programmed the FMC for our return. I also sent the divert message to notify the company of our planned return. I called for the approach descent checks and briefed the visual backed up by the ILS. We discussed the possibility of losing the number I engine on final and the possibility of using flaps 15 for a single engine landing. On our base leg, I called for the approach checklist as we started to descend. Once on final, I called for gear down and flaps 15 and the landing checklist. Prior to the final approach fix, I called for flaps 30. The landing was normal. Tower directed us to contact ramp. We asked for the fire trucks to see if there were any visual indications of damage to the number 1 engine. They reported no issues, and followed us [to] the gate. I accomplished the after landing flow and the Parking checklist. Once at the gate, the Captain remained in the flight deck to accomplish the maintenance write up for the bird strike and overweight landing. I walked out to the ramp to inspect the number 1 engine and noticed the bird strike at the 10 0'clock position. I believe we handled the event appropriately and safely. Although there was no apparent damage to the engine, I believe our return to the airport was prudent. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis
B737NG flight crew reported returning to departure airport after experiencing a bird strike at 800 feet AGL on initial climb.
Time / Day Date : 201711 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZZZ.TRACON State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 7000 Environment Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Regional Jet 700 ER/LR (CRJ700) Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Descent Airspace.CIass E : ZZZ Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1495522 Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1495662 Events Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Bird / Animal Detector. Person : Flight Crew
When Detected : In-flight Result.Aircraft : Aircraft Damaged Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Primary Problem : Environment - Non Weather Related Narrative: 1 We were at 7,000 ft and 210 knots at night and a bit more than 20 miles from [destination]. I saw a quick flash of what I could make out to be a number of birds, as they passed through the beam of the landing light, just a millisecond before they hit. We felt the impact but was only a small vibration. Immediately after the impact, we got a Duct Mon Fault and Anti-lce Fault message. The Captain called the flight attendants right away, so that they knew what had happened. However, we did not inform ATC, as there was no issue with the aircraft and we figured it was too far out to be an airport hazard to other aircraft. Upon landing the Captain called maintenance and we both went out to look at the damage. It was at this point that we realized the damage was quite extensive, with multiple impacts along the wing and wing root. The threat was that the damage could have been worse and had a possible effect on the aerodynamics as we slowed. This was not a preventable situation but in the future, if it happen again, I Will inform ATC. This way they have the information and may use it however they wish. Also, it may be good in this situation in the future, to ask the flight attendant, if they can see any damage to the wings, so that we can better evaluate the extent of the damage. Narrative: 2 [We believe the type of birds to be] migratory geese. Synopsis CRJ-700 flight crew reported damage to the left wing from an encounter with migratory geese at 7,000 ft.
Time / Day Date : 201710 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZZZ.ARTCC State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 41000 Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8737-700 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass A : ZZZ Component Aircraft Component : Hydraulic System Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 7000 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1490666 Human Factors : Distraction : Human-Machine Interface Human Factors Troubleshooting Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck
Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1490724 Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Human-Machine Interface Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Troubleshooting Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Bird / Animal Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Overcame Equipment Problem Result.FIight Crew : Diverted Result.Flight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Result.Aircraft : Aircraft Damaged Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Equipment / Tooling Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 Approximately 60 miles NE of ZZZ we started seeing an Intermittent Master Caution indication with no abnormal overhead annunciation. We tried the recall, but it did not illuminate anything overhead so we began checking other systems when the Captain displayed the hydraulic quantity indicator, which read approximately 19 percent on the "A" side. He then gave me the radios (I was the Pilot Flying) and attempted to contact Dispatch to see if they would like us to divert to ZZZ. Shortly during this difficult contact procedure (communication issues with Dispatch), the Master Caution light and the "A" Engine Driven Hydraulic Pump light illuminated. We ran the QRH Hydraulic Pump Low Pressure Checklist and turned off the "A" pump. Dispatch finally advised us to go to ZZZ and we were then given direct to the airport along with a descent from ATC I began using the speedbrakes to help the descent and we noticed the quantity getting lower so we decided to review the loss of "A" procedure and also agreed to use flaps 15 for landing. Captain received the flaps 15 numbers, we then reviewed the approach and ran the Descent and Approach Checklist. We were cleared direct ZZZZZ for the ILS XXL. Approach informed us they had Fire and Rescue waiting. We decided to drop the gear early when the nose gear failed to extend, Captain manually extended it and successfully indicated down and green. He then took over as Pilot Flying. Just inside the marker we started losing system A. I got out the QRH, ran the Before Landing Checklist and he gently touched down on [Runway] XXL. The fire trucks were waiting, we decided not to reconfigure and asked them to check for leaks/fumes. They indicated a leak from the nose wheel but no fire or fumes. Our gate was blocked by another aircraft and we both agreed to pull straight ahead to Gate XX. I contacted Ops to advise them and the Firemen guided us in. As I walked around the
aircraft (Maintenance still wasn't there), the Fire Fighters pointed out a bird in the nose wheel well, which probably happened on takeoff and caused the entire event. Hats off to the Captain! Great job! Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis B737-700 flight crew reported diverting due to System A hydraulic failure.
Time / Day Date : 201710 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : SFO.Airport State Reference : CA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 900 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : SFO Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Widebody Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Climb Airspace.CIass B : SFO Component Aircraft Component : Air Data Computer Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 21000 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 200 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 13000 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1490078 Human Factors : Time Pressure : Troubleshooting Human Factors Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Distraction Person : 2
Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Relief Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (AT P) Experience.Flight Crew. Total : 11800 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 90 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 8000 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 149065 : Workload Human Factors Troubleshooting Human Factors : Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Time Pressure Person : 3 Reference : 3 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience.Flight Crew. Total : 16200 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 240 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 10100 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1490210 Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Time Pressure Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Troubleshooting Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Bird / Animal Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.General : Maintenance Action Result.FIight Crew : Landed As Precaution Result.FIight Crew : Returned To Departure Airport Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Result.Aircraft : Aircraft Damaged Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Primary Problem : Environment - Non Weather Related Narrative: 1 After takeoff at about 800 ft and before raising flaps, we struck a flock of approximately 20 birds. We probably hit about 6 of them. Both windscreens were partially obscured and the "Windshear" alert sounded. The birds were spotted just before impact so it was
obvious that we hadn't encountered windshear. After the encounter, the captain's airspeed was showing approximately 80 knots when the standby and First Officer's airspeed read approximately 190 kts. Control of the aircraft was transferred to the First Officer who continued the climb and retracted flaps on schedule. ATC was notified of the bird strike and location. We requested an initial climb to 10,000 ft and advised them there were some systems affected by the bird strike and that we would be working the problem. The flight directors were not working, and LNAV and VNAV seemed unreliable. The First Officer hand flew the airplane. The autopilot was later engaged as we determined that it worked in "R." The First Officer flew the airplane and handled most of the radio work with the second observer backing him up. The Captain and First Observer accomplished the "IAS Disagree or Airspeed Unreliable" checklist. This brought back the Captain's airspeed indicators to normal. An analysis of the aircraft's condition and equipment status was done. The flight directors had biased from view, LNAV was inoperative, the airplane seemed to turn slower than normal, and we did not know what other damage had been done. We request ATC to provide vectors for us to prepare for dumping and used Satcom for conference call with dispatch and maintenance. We did not feel it was safe or wise to continue to destination so began preparation to return to SFO. The aircraft weight was approximately 830,000 lbs so we dumped approximately 200,000 lbs of fuel to bring weight down to 630,000 lbsin preparation for landing back in SFO. Logbook entries, approach preparation, briefings, and checklists were accomplished during dumping which took approximately 45 mins. The BDEGA 2 arrival and ILS Runway 28R were flown by the captain using the autopilot in HDG SEL and FLCH, then GS and LOC to approximately 1200 ft, then hand flown for landing with Flaps 30. Narrative: 2 At 1000 ft after takeoff, while captain was flying, we hit a flock of geese. Blood momentarily covered windscreen on both sides and aural/EICAS warnings activated. Captain's PFD showed false air data info such as low speed, winds, altitude, vertical speed indicator, and auto throttles were unresponsive. FO instrumentation appeared accurate, and Captain transferred control to him. I worked with Captain on the EICAS messages by checklist while FO and other relief pilot flew and communicated with ATC. After checklist were completed and established in vectored holding pattern, a crew, dispatch, Maintenance Control and aircraft assessment lead Captain to decide that a return to SFO was safest. Communicated to all agencies necessary, crew, and passengers. Uneventful return to base. Narrative: 3 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis Air carrier flight crew reported encountering multiple bird strikes shortly after takeoff from SFO resulting in spurious flight instrument indications. After dumping fuel, a return to the departure airport was safely accomplished.
Time / Day Date : 201709 Local Time Of Day : 0001-0600 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility Light : Night Ceiling.SingIe Value : 20000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal : 10 Make Model Name : PA-28 Cherokee/Archer/Dakota/Pillan/Warrior Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Training Flight Phase : Landing Flight Phase : Taxi Route In Use : None Airspace.CIass E : ZZZ Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Instructor Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 17800 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 70 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 150 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1487708 Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal
Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.FIight Crew : Trainee Qualification.Flight Crew : Student Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 34.5 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 25 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 31.5 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1488266 Events Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Person / Animal / Bird Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : Taxi Result.Aircraft : Aircraft Damaged Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Primary Problem : Environment - Non Weather Related Narrative: 1 I was instructing in a Piper PA28-161 Warrior. My student was making the landing rollout, completing a normal full flap night landing. He made three touch and goes and the full stop was to be our last landing of the evening. No deer were seen during any of the first three landings. Runway lights were on the medium step, and all appeared to be illuminated. The aircraft's beacon, strobes, navigation lights, and nose mounted LED landing light were on and operating throughout the landing roll and at the time of the deer strike. During landing roll, at approximately mid-field on the 5,000 foot runway, the student had slowed the plane to about 20 mph a small buck deer came into view walking left to right onto the runway 30 yards ahead Of us. The student in the left seat applied heavy braking. I took the controls and applied maximum braking and had slowed to about 3 miles per hour. With no way to avoid the deer, we watched as the small buck walked into the idling prop. Exiting the plane, we found the dead buck laying on its right side about three feet behind the nose wheel and under the inboard portion of the right wing. It appeared as though the propeller struck the deer near the right hindquarters, breaking its back. I would estimate the weight of the animal to be about 75 pounds. No attempt was made to restart the engine, which died when the prop stopped as it hit the deer. Instead, we completed the shutdown checklist and secured the aircraft. I walked to the hangar and brought a golf cart to the aircraft. After removing the deer carcass from the runway, we towed the aircraft to its hangar with a tow bar and the golf cart. A precursory inspection in the lighted hangar revealed no visible damage to the propeller, cowling, or nose gear assembly. I stress the visual examination was precursory and in no way equaled a professional assessment by a qualified A&P mechanic. No one was injured. Narrative: 2 I was flying with my instructor in a Piper PA28-161 warrior. I was coming back from a night cross-country. I needed to get 5 of my night landings completed. Me and my instructor had already done 3 touch and go's, and to the side and on the runway was
clear, in the dark night of what we could see. All the lights were on at the airport, all the lights on the airplane [were] on. We were coming on our last landing to a full stop on that night. I was right on the glide slope 2 red 2 white and was doing a normal landing. Right when I touched down I applied brakes and pulled back on the controls, so we could taxi- off taxiway Charlie. As we were coming to a stop I saw a little buck deer come from my left to my right, and I said deer, deer! He was trotting along and when he looked into my landing light he stopped. When I said deer, deer! I applied heavy braking and pulled back on the controls as hard as I could. The brakes locked up and applied the maximum braking. And we locked the brakes and we were stopping quickly. My instructor helped with braking the plane. And we hit the deer about 3 miles an hour with the idling prop. If the deer was 5 feet farther we would of missed him. I maintained control of aircraft as this happened. I maintained the centerline of the runway, I didn't swerve, [and] I kept the plane straight and in control. And when we hit, the idling prop stopped. The first thing that came to my mind was the ELT, and I tuned it to 121.5 MHz, and the ELT didn't go off. We shut everything off except the lights on the aircraft, for safety reasons. When we got out, the buck was 3 feet behind the wheel, with a broken back. I called the owner of the plane and he was on his way, and the deer, I called the Game Warden, and said I could keep the deer if I cleaned it, which I did. We did not restart the aircraft, and we went through the shutdown checklist, with the lights still on. My instructor went and got the golf cart to tow the plane, and I stayed with it, so if someone came in the pattern, I had my lights on, and I could make a call and say abort landing, and don't land, so we could talk to other pilots to be safe, but no one came into the pattern. We put the deer on the cart and towed the plane back to its hangar, but there was no visual damage to the propeller, cowling, or nose gear assembly. The visual examination was precursory and in no way equaled a professional by a qualified A&P Mechanic. But [neither] the instructor nor I [were] hurt. We both were safe and nothing happened to us. Synopsis PA28 pilots reported that during landing rollout, a deer walked in front of the aircraft and was struck by the propeller.
Time / Day Date : 201709 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Large Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Parked Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1481106 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Other / Unknown Events Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Other / Unknown Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Person / Animal / Bird Detector. Person : Other Person When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate Result.GeneraI : Flight Cancelled / Delayed Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Ambiguous Company Policy Human Factors Procedure
Narrative: 1 Airport customs requires that aircraft departing for an international destination have a pre- departure inspection. The crew is not allowed on the aircraft during the inspection. While waiting at the gate for the inspection to be completed, the gate agent came out of the gateway followed by several people in business dress. Well within hearing distance of the passengers, the gate agent said Captain I am required to inform you that while cleaning the cockpit, the cleaning crew saw a snake under the captain's pedals. The snake got away and they have not been able to find it. I am required to tell you this. At this time, the inspection was complete and I was allowed on the aircraft. I found two mechanics in the flight deck. I was informed that they had not been able to find the snake and they were not able to say with certainty what species of snake it was. The logbook had not been notated with a write up. I placed a write up in the book. I was also getting a line check on this flight. The check airman told me that his father was deathly afraid of snakes and suggested that some passengers on the flight may suffer with the same conditions. I contacted dispatch and discussed with them that I was uncomfortable taking the aircraft with an unknown reptile condition. The dispatcher agreed there was an unknown condition in the aircraft and the possibility that a snake could expose itself in flight or worse on the approach come out from under the rudder pedals. Dispatch agreed with my position. The gate agent then asked to board the aircraft. I said no, as we might be changing aircraft. I then contacted the Chief Pilot. I explained the situation and told him I was uncomfortable flying the aircraft without determining what the condition of the snake was. I had specifically asked if the cleaning crew had really had seen a snake? I was informed yes, that they had tried to vacuum it up and it had slithered away. The Chief Pilot agreed with me and told me he would have a new aircraft for us in five minutes. We were assigned the aircraft at the gate next door. The aircraft had to go through an international departure inspection. It took about forty- five minutes to get the inspection done. During that time, the tower called twice. There were no gate agents so I answered the phone. The first time the agent said, "We got you a new aircraft are you going to board?" I said we were standing around twiddling our thumbs waiting for an international departure inspection. The second inspection was a different person who identified himself as a manager. He had the same aggressive attitude and asked if we were going to board. I replied the same response. He hung up the phone. The inspection was finally completed, we boarded and departed one hour late. During this process, I felt pressured by the tower personnel to board and take an aircraft in an unknown safety condition. I also felt that if I had not placed the write-up I the book the tower would have tried to ignore the condition of the aircraft and the possible safety Issue if a snake had exposed itself in flight. Unconfirmed when I returned, I asked a gate agent what had happened to the "snake airplane". I was told the aircraft was left in service and the next Captain had been asked to sign some type of form stating he was informed the snake had not been found. Synopsis Air Carrier Captain reported that a cleaning crew saw a snake under the Captain's rudder pedals and was unable to capture it. The aircraft was rejected.
Time / Day Date : 201709 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 2000 Environment Flight Conditions : Mixed Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 2000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8737-700 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Climb Airspace.CIass B : ZZZ Component Aircraft Component : Turbine Engine Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 8000 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1480719 Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier
Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 120 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 5200 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1480743 Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Bird / Animal Detector. Person : Flight Crew Were Passengers Involved In Event : N When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Result.Flight Crew : Returned To Departure Airport Result.Aircraft : Aircraft Damaged Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Primary Problem : Environment - Non Weather Related Narrative: 1 After takeoff, we had just retracted the landing gear and were accelerating when, at the last second, I saw a black dot ahead of us in our turn left to a 200 heading. It appeared to be a bird. I tried to pull the nose up to climb above it, but it wheeled up, put its brakes on by pulling its wings back and then dropped off to the right. It entered our right engine and we immediately had a loud buzzing noise along with engine vibration at about 3.5 to 4 on the number 2 engine. I checked the engine NIs and N2s and the engine was still rotating, but the vibration continued unchecked. My First Officer and I discussed the parameters as I initially thought to call for the severe damage checklist, but instead elected to call for the engine vibration checklist as the engine was still running. After retarding the throttle to idle, the vibrations subsided. I elected to keep the engine running, but land configured for a single engine landing with flaps at 15 just in case the engine failed at any point. Landing and rollout were uneventful. I shut down number 2 engine after landing and had the fire trucks check out our number 2 engine for leaks or damage and clear us to taxi. At the gate, the damage to the fan blades on the rotor was apparent. Narrative: 2 We elected to return to the airport for landing. Synopsis 3737-700 flight crew reported a bird strike after takeoff which resulted in damage to the right engine and return to departure airport.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Place Locale Reference.Airport : EWR.Airport State Reference : NJ Altitude.MSL.SingIe Value : 6000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : N90 Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B757 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Final Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.CIass B : EWR Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Make Model Name : Any Unknown or Unlisted Aircraft Manufacturer Airspace.CIass B : EWR Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 550 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1473349 Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown. Party2 : ATC Events
Anomaly Conflict : NMAC Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Bird / Animal Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Returned To Clearance Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 We had a bird strike at 6000 ft just to preface this event. Was given a descent to 2000 ft and slow to 170 knots, then told to follow a company 737 for a visual approach to 4R. Then a frequency change to tower frequency. Before we could check in with tower, and as we were leveling at 2000 ft, we got a TRAFFIC, TRAFFIC. 1 looked at the TCAS and showed an aircraft at 500 ft below us and climbing (almost directly below our position slightly to the left on the 10 mile scale) then within a second we got a CLIMB, CLIMB and the red envelope had a very aggressive climb (not like the small climbs in the SIM for training), I clicked off the autopilot and auto throttles and pitched to climb outside of the red box. I glanced at the TCAS as it showed the other aircraft at 300 feet. After climbing to about 2800 feet we got a CLEAR OF CONFLICT. The FO (First Officer) switched back to approach and told them we had just performed an RA maneuver for traffic. ATC said something to the effect that, oh yeah, there's Aircraft Y there at 1800 ft but I am not talking to hm, and said something about that being a tower thing. We continued the visual approach to 4R and landed without further incident. Synopsis 8757 pilot reported a TCAS RA on final with an aircraft that the tower knew about but did not issue as traffic.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : DCA.Airport State Reference : DC Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : DCA Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8737-800 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Takeoff Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1468377 Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience.FIight Crew. Total : 7150 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1468393 Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Bird / Animal Detector. Person : Flight Crew
When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Diverted Result.Flight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 We had a bird strike at rotation taking off Runway 19 at DCA. The bird hit the radome and the Captain's windshield. On climb out there was a loud squeal and we suspected a window seal leak. We [advised ATC of the situation] and with Captain's authority, landed overweight. We followed the appropriate QRH procedures. The landing was normal, touchdown was less than 50 feet per minute and we weighed 147,000 pounds. A bird strike form has been submitted. The Aircraft Maintenance Log (AML) was filled out appropriately and addressed by maintenance, no damage was found. Narrative: 2 Takeoff from DCA Runway 19, just after rotation we had a single thump on the airframe and noticed a large bug splat on the Captain's forward windscreen close to the center line. We concluded it was a bird strike, no other indications noticed. The Captain continued the climb and clean up with no problems until reaching roughly 4,000 feet where a very loud squeal was heard. We assumed a window seal had been compromised and under Captain's Authority decided to [advise ATC of the situation] and divert. Speed never exceeded 250 and altitude no higher than 5,000. Aircraft maintained pressurization throughout. We did notice the squeal decreased and ceased at less than 1.4 differential PSI (3,500 feet). Appropriate QRH checklists were accomplished. We landed overweight at 147,000 with less than 60 feet/minute [on the] Vertical Speed Indicator (VSI) on touchdown, 30 flaps, brakes 1 and rolled long to prevent overheating brakes. Crash and rescue met us on just off the runway for inspection of airframe and brakes. No issues. Bird strike form submitted. Synopsis B737-800 crew reported a bird strike on departure from DCA which resulted in a loud squeal and a diversion.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : MD-80 Series (DC-9-80) Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Takeoff Component Aircraft Component : Turbine Engine Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1467539 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Smoke / Fire / Fumes / Odor Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Bird / Animal Detector.Automation : Aircraft Other Automation Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Returned To Departure Airport Result.FIight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Result.Flight Crew : Landed As Precaution Result.Aircraft : Aircraft Damaged Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 At rotation on takeoff we had a surge on left engine with a loud bang. The EPR (Engine Pressure Ratio) dropped to approx. 1.60 then returned to normal with a brief MC (Master Caution) light. All 3 FAs called and said "we have a real bad odor with smoke" We then [advised ATC] and returned to [the departure airport]. Also a deadheading Pilot told a FA that we might have a blown tire. We really didn't know what we had. The tower had had the runway checked for debris. It was clean. After landing the aircraft was checked out then we taxied to gate. It was an overweight landing 140,000 lbs. The post flight walk around showed signs of bird remains in left engine. FAs did a great job and the passengers seemed to be in good spirits. Synopsis MD80 pilot reported a bird strike on rotation that led to engine surges, odor, and smoke In the cabin.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8737 Undifferentiated or Other Model Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Maintenance Status. Maintenance Type : Unscheduled Maintenance Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved : Work Cards Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved : Inspection Person Reference : I Location Of Person : Company Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Maintenance : Technician Qualification.Maintenance : Powerplant Qualification.Maintenance : Airframe ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1465118 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Maintenance Communication Breakdown. Party2 : Other Events Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Maintenance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Bird / Animal Detector. Person : Maintenance When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate When Detected : Routine Inspection Result.GeneraI : Flight Cancelled / Delayed Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 The previous flight leg the airplane experienced a birdstrike landing. Maintenance accomplished a birdstrike inspection per Maintenance Manual. No Maintenance checkcard
was referenced. I asked 2 mechanics to accomplish Maintenance task 5. Afterwards management stated it was an unacceptable delay because General procedures manual allows the maintenance Manual references to be used in lieu of the workcards. True, unbeknownst to me GPM does state this. However, General procedures Manual states the workcard takes "precedence" when "conflicts" occur between documents. The 737 Maintenance Manual 5 and task card 5 have profound differences. The question now arises, if a mechanic chooses the Maintenance Manual reference over the workcard, how does he/she know the language of the Maintenance Manual is consistent with the work card. Furthermore, GPM technically allows Maintenance Manual references to be used instead of all common task workcard procedures like towbar disconnect or oil servicing. Synopsis A Maintenance Technician reported that maintenance took a delay because of the required inspection for a bird strike was not accomplished per work cards.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : 4S9.Airport State Reference : OR Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 2700 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : 4S9 10 Make Model Name : Cessna Single Piston Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Training Flight Phase : Descent Airspace.CIass E : P80 Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : FBO Function.FIight Crew : Instructor Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1464212 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Bird / Animal Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action
Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Ambiguous Narrative: 1 Airport Human Factors Procedure Routine Training flight. We followed proper procedures by announcing our position with the intent of performing a simulated engine failure to a touch and go at Mulino airport. We were on frequency of CTAF and asked if there were any gliders or jumpers at Mulino. No response! A little closer we announced again asking if there was any traffic, jumpers and gliders at Mulino. Again, no response. We climbed to 2700' over Southwest corner of Runway 32 with the intent of performing a simulated engine fail to touch and go. As we were descending, in our second turn we heard the jump plane pilot say there were open canopies EAST Of Runway 32. We looked and saw jumpers between 1800-2000' and on our westbound heading flew NW away from the runway and airport. We were west of runway and jumpers were east of runway. We were scolded by the jump pilot to read the sectional chart. The chart is clearly marked with glider and jump symbology. What troubles me is that the jump pilot monitors both Approach and CTAF. We were on frequency and announced and heard no reports or follow up jumper advisories. If we were in perceived conflict the Jump pilot can very easily shout out jumper traffic if he is monitoring the CTAF. The responsibility for see and avoid is on us but advisories for jumpers is additional responsibility for jump school personnel. My suggestion is for the jump pilot to make multiple advisories and have a ground spotter on CTAF who can call out to any aircraft in the pattern who cause a conflict. Synopsis GA flight instructor reported being surprised by skydivers while in the pattern at Mulino State Airport after requesting information several times over the CT AF frequency.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 8000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B737 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Climb Airspace.CIass B : ZZZ Component Aircraft Component : Normal Brake System Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification. Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 3456 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1463768 Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP)
Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 2187 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1463782 Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Smoke / Fire / Fumes / Odor Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Bird / Animal Detector. Person : Flight Crew Were Passengers Involved In Event : N When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Diverted Result.Flight Crew : Landed As Precaution Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Primary Problem : Environment - Non Weather Related Narrative: 1 Climbing out of 8000 ft had a bird strike to the right engine. NI on the right engine had a momentary drop of 10%. Then came back to normal. Very strong dead bird smell in cabin. We [returned] and landed (overweight landing). Taxied off the runway and fire trucks pulled up and said there was no damage. We asked to taxi back to a gate. Aircraft would not move; brakes were locked. Vans were sent out and passengers deplaned via air stairs. Narrative: 2 Out of an abundance of caution, we selected MAX Autobrakes since ACARS returned a "Flight Not Found" error when Landing Data was requested. Synopsis 8737 flight crew reported a bird strike on climbout that resulted in momentary power reduction. After an overweight landing, the crew encountered locked brakes.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 1000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Regional Jet 200 ER/LR (CRJ200) Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Final Approach Flight Phase : Initial Approach Airspace.CIass B : ZZZ Component Aircraft Component : Oxygen System/General Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Design Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1460855 Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Workload Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft
Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1460865 Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Time Pressure Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Other / Unknown Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Bird / Animal Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.Aircraft : Aircraft Damaged Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 On final, shortly after autopilot was disconnected a mosquito appeared in the cockpit. This was a great distraction to my First Officer (FO) who was pilot flying. They repeatedly tried swatting at the mosquito while hand flying the aircraft. I grabbed the rolled up release and smashed the mosquito so that my FO would no longer be distracted. After swatting the mosquito a ding was heard for caution message and the caution switch light illuminated. There was a PAX OX ON message. I instructed the FO to continue the landing. After exiting the runway and completing the after landing check I instructed to the FO to speak with the Flight Attendant (FA) to assess the situation. We continued to the hold pad since our gate was not open. In the hold pad I spoke with the FA about the passengers and the masks. She informed me that no passenger donned the masks as she made an announcement that they had deployed in error. Once our gate opened we taxied over and deplaned the passengers. All passengers appeared in good spirits despite the wait in the hold pad and the masks. I notified Maintenance of the deployment and they arrived at the aircraft. I informed them of what occurred and showed them that the guard did not function properly to protect the switch from inadvertent activation. The cause of this event was the distraction caused by the mosquito in the cockpit and the failure of the switch guard on the passenger oxygen switch. More training or awareness that this switch guard failure is a known issue and to avoid the switch as much as possible or refit or repair those guards which do not function properly. Narrative: 2
During the final approach phase as the Pilot Flying I identified a mosquito in my field of view. It is my understanding that the Pilot Monitoring attempted to remove the Mosquito from my field of view. During this attempt, the Guarded Passenger oxygen mask switch was inadvertently contacted issuing a single chime followed by a yellow master caution 'Pass Oxy on'. We continued without incident given the nature of time associated with the threat. Captain notified Maintenance on landing. The cause of the event is the Crew's untimely handling of removing the mosquito from the field of view. Follow Company SOPs to avoid participating in activities or resolving issues in the cockpit while in the approach phase of flight unless such issues become a flight risk or pose a safety risk to any or all persons on board. Synopsis CRJ 200 flight crew reported accidentally deploying the passengers oxygen masks after being distracted by a mosquito in the cockpit.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 800 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : A319 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Climb Component Aircraft Component : Turbine Engine Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Failed Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1458832 Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Bird / Annal Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Inflight Shutdown Result.Flight Crew : Landed As Precaution Result.Flight Crew : Returned To Departure Airport Result.FIight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Primary Problem : Environment - Non Weather Related Narrative: 1 Takeoff gross weight of 138, XXX. Weather was scattered / broken clouds, winds 240 12G19, temperature 30c. The Captain was the flying pilot and briefed all required items for the departure including engine failure according to [Company] standards and SID engine failure procedures. Tower cleared us for takeoff and gave no indication of any bird activity in the area. We both visually cleared the runway environment to include the departure path and no signs of any bird activity. Normal FLEX takeoff procedures and landing gear retraction. At 800 ft AGL during takeoff we saw a group of 3 very large birds pass the left side and impact the aircraft and the Number 1 engine. From the impact noise and excessive vibration from the Number I engine, it was apparent catastrophic engine failure. Engine Number I had ingested at least I bird and possibly impacted others on the aircraft. The FO immediately announced Number I engine failure, loss of thrust, and EGT overtemp. The Captain commanded for ECAM ACTION and continued the climb to 1000 AGL / 1900 MSL. Following the ECAM directing engine shutdown and securing the engine, the mishap engine continued with loud vibrating / grinding noise. Because of this excessive noise / vibration and unsure about the condition of the wing we elected not to retract the flaps and to maintain VFR flying conditions. This required that we deviate from the published engine failure procedures and turned north heading 360 degrees in order to maintain VFR and the airfield in visual range. Once stable northbound the loud vibration continued even though the Number 1 engine had successfully shut down. We decided we needed to land ASAP and not continue with more checklist procedures and impending IMC conditions. We started the APU decided on flaps 3 for landing configuration. The FO informed tower we were an emergency aircraft and needed an immediate landing runway. Tower gave clearance for any runway we needed. Because of aircraft slow performance and unknown damage we elected for a wide shallow base turn to final. The only information we were able to give the flight attendants and passengers during the final approach was "prepare for immediate landing". The loud impact and excessive vibration made it apparent to all passengers something catastrophic had happened. Tower was informed of all emergency specifics and told we would be stopping on the runway and shut down. Final approach and landing was as planned and completed without further incident. The aircraft was stopped [on the runway]. We gave the passengers "remain seated" announcement and finished all checklists. We received the fire department report saying no other external hazards exist except the engine damage. The passengers were then informed that all was safe and to remain seated until we return to the gate. We kept the APU running to keep air conditioning and informed Operations we wanted to be towed back to the gate. This flight and all procedures were followed professionally in accordance with all company and safety directives. The flight attendants were particularly instrumental ensuring the safety of all passengers with the little information they were given. Synopsis
A319 Captain reported returning to departure airport after birds were ingested into Number I engine shortly after takeoff, resulting in catastrophic engine failure.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Local Time Of Day : 0001-0600 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 200 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 3737-800 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Climb Flight Phase : Takeoff Airspace.CIass B : ZZZ Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1455601 Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1455593 Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Bird / Animal Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action
Result.Flight Crew : Returned To Departure Airport Result.FIight Crew : Landed As Precaution Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Primary Problem : Environment - Non Weather Related Narrative: 1 [After takeoff, at] approximately 200 feet [AGL] we hit birds. We ingested them into the right engine. There was an immediate noise, slight yaw, erratic NI,N2 and associated engine instruments for a brief second (on the right engine) before they stabilized. The Pilot Monitoring and I (Flying Pilot) then noticed a burning smell. We agreed that returning to [departure airport] was the best course of action. The Captain notified the Flight Attendants, who heard the noise and also smelled the burnt feathers in the cabin, that we were returning. The engine was performing normally at this time, [I advised] that we would return to [departure airport], stop on the runway while we were inspected by the local emergency ground personnel and then return to the gate. We notified Ramp/Operations to coordinate a new gate, finished the after take-off climb check, then started and completed the before landing checklist. We were below max landing weight. Actual weight was 141,300. Landing was uneventful, we coordinated with AARF to secure the right engine for inspection. They followed us to the gate where passengers deplaned and maintenance took the plane out of service. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis 3737-800 flight crew reported returning to departure airport after ingesting birds into the right engine.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Local Time Of Day : 0001-0600 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 400 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B737 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Takeoff Airspace.CIass B : ZZZ Component Aircraft Component : Turbine Engine Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Failed Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1453118 Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP)
Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 2534 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 1606 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1453122 Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Bird / Animal Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Result.Flight Crew : Returned To Departure Airport Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Primary Problem : Environment - Non Weather Related Narrative: 1 We had just gotten airborne off of runway XYL at ZZZ. We were climbing to 400 feet to begin our assigned turn to the south. As we were preparing to turn we saw a flock of birds approaching our track. We called out the birds and were initiating the turn when we heard several impacts, and the number 2 engine rolled back slightly and redlined. I rolled out and decreased climb rate to speed up and raise the flaps. First Officer (FO) moved heading indicator and verbalized for me to come back to the right to get back on the extended runway centerline. FO notified ATC of engine failure and informed them of our intention to climb out on runway heading. After cleanup, I requested 4000 feet for altitude while we ran checklists. Because of the number 2 engine temperature and popping and banging, FO suggested Engine Fire or Engine Severe Damage checklists, and I agreed. During this period, ATC advised us that people have witnessed flames from the number 2 engine. Checklist was accomplished. We took vectors while we completed it. I also put on the autopilot at some point during this time. I was delayed doing this because initially I had put in incorrect rudder trim. When I looked down and saw what I had done I corrected it and was able to have the aircraft trimmed properly to use the autopilot. We took vectors [and] I turned over the aircraft to the FO so I could brief the approach, talk to the flight attendants and passengers, and advise dispatch. The flight attendants had tried to call several times during the event, but we had ignored those calls to handle the problem. After everyone was informed, we finished up the items for one engine approach and landing. Uneventful single engine approach to runway XXR was flown. We cleared the runway at taxiway T. Fire department looked us over and took some temperature readings. Everything looked okay so we taxied to the gate where many people were waiting for us. Narrative: 2 We were cleared for takeoff with a tower assigned heading of 180. At approximately 300- 400 AGL a flock of Canadian geese flew in front of us. I saw the birds go under the right side of the aircraft. At that point we ingested an unknown numbers of birds. The number 2 engine then had high vibration and popping noises. There was still high NI rotation but EGT temperature rising rapidly to the overheat position. We then determined we had an engine failure and I pulled out the QRH. At 400 feet I bugged the captain to the runway centerline. I then told the tower we had an engine failure, we were going to take it out runway heading and we would like to run a checklist and get back to them. We cleaned the aircraft up on schedule and set max continuous thrust (The aircraft was is VNAV and did not automatic accelerate to clean maneuvering, I had to select level change and
manually bug Vcl). I pulled out the QRH and at that time they advised us that we had flames shooting out the back of the engine. Simultaneously the flight attendants were trying to calls us. Tower handed us off to departure. Departure vectored us back around for an approach. With the aircraft stable I was able to call back to the Flight Attendants (FA) and advise them we had an engine failure, it was under control and we would be back to them soon. The captain flew and talked to ATC and I ran the Engine severe damage checklist. Once I was done with the checklist the captain engaged the autopilot and handed the aircraft over to me. I flew and talked to ATC while he talked to the FAs, passengers, and dispatch. He then briefed me for and approach to runway XXR. After the brief was completed, I handed the plane back over to him and I completed the one engine inoperative checklist. Approach vectored us for runway XXR and we landed without issue. We cleared the runway and stopped so Airport Rescue and Fire Fighting could examine the general aircraft condition. After they stated they could see no abnormal heat signatures they followed us to [the] gate. Synopsis 3737 flight crew reported an engine failure on takeoff due to a bird strike. After the crew accomplished checklist items, a successful single engine approach and landing was made.
Time / Day Date : 201705 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : A319 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Flight Phase : Climb Airspace.CIass B : ZZZ Component : 1 Aircraft Component : Pitot-Static System Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Failed Component : 2 Aircraft Component : Angle of Attack Vane Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Failed Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1452148 Human Factors : Situational Awareness : Troubleshooting Human Factors Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Bird / Animal Detector.Automation : Aircraft Other Automation Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.General : Maintenance Action
Result.Flight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Result.FIight Crew : Overcame Equipment Problem Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.FIight Crew : Returned To Departure Airport Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Primary Problem : Environment - Non Weather Related Narrative: 1 I did a preflight on Aircraft X and noted that a previous crew had written up a First Officer (FO) AOA system fault. Maintenance (MX) had tested the systems and returned the aircraft for service. Unbeknownst to us we took a bird strike to the standby pitot tube on takeoff which completely disabled it. My first indication of a problem was that the Flight Director (FD) disappeared and kicked off the Auto Pilot (AP). I took over the Pilot Flying duties and the Captain pulled the QRH for an AP 2 failure. Climbing and accelerating we retracted the flaps on schedule and received the aural stall warning with an associated ALPHA FLOOR and TOGA LOCK scenario. I disconnected the auto throttles and flew the aircraft to a known safe attitude noting the airspeed to be above 200 knots. ATC gave us a climb and we decided to level off at 5000 and troubleshoot further instead. The Captain was busy now with a myriad of ECAMs and I was hand flying the aircraft back on course and noticed the standby airspeed indicating zero and that we were flying in Alternate Law. We included our discussion of the situation with our airbus captain jump seater and were able to reestablish the auto throttle automation but determined we needed to return to ZZZ. The Captain [advised ATC], briefed and set up the aircraft for a visual approach to Runway XYC. We also noted and discussed the implications of putting the gear down and what the timing of that would be. On a downwind I started slowing the aircraft down and called for flaps I. Again as soon as the pitch changed we got an aural stall warning and TOGA LOCK. I again disconnected the auto throttles and the captain went into the QRH. I asked for an extended downwind for more troubleshooting and the Captain began another reset of Flight Augmentation Computer [FAC] I and 2. This time we decided not to reengage the auto throttles and that the best course of action would be to get the aircraft on the ground. I asked ATC for a base turn and lined up on a 10 mile final. Flaps 2 and 3 yielded the same aural stall warning which was now disregarded and we went gear down Direct Law to a normal landing. After engine shutdown we received an ECAM for First Officer AOA system fault and contacted Maintenance. Post flight inspection revealed a bird strike which completely clogged the standby pitot tube. I believe that the First Officer AOA system was sending bad or missing information to the aircraft. Multiple failures of redundant systems. Synopsis A319 First Officer reported that during climb they lost the Flight Director and the Autopilot disconnected due to multiple system failures.
Time / Day Date : 201705 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 12000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal 10 Make Model Name : Amateur/Home Built/Experimental Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Landing Route In Use : Direct Route In Use : Visual Approach Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Private Experience.Flight Crew. Total : 1182 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 4 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 1000 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number • . 1450291 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Distraction Events Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Gear Up Landing Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Bird / Animal Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Aircraft : Aircraft Damaged
Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Aircraft is a kit built Europa XS with a single fuselage monowheel and outrigger wheels under each wing. The mainwheel and outriggers are retractable and controlled mechanically by an operating lever in the cockpit. The flaps are linked to the landing gear; they are fully down with the gear down and fully up with the gear up. The aircraft is a tailwheel plane (vso = 42 kts, Vsl = 50 kts). The pilot is the aircraft builder. Total time on the aircraft is 998 hours, all flown by the pilot. Pilot was only soul on board. Approximately 5 miles out, I advised on CT AF that I was entering left crosswind for left downwind for Runway XX. No other aircraft were in the pattern at that time. Advised turning onto left downwind for Runway XX on CTAF. At the Runway XX numbers approximately, I reduced power to descend for the approach. When I reduced power at that point, I normally manually lower the landing gear which is on a swing arm linkage. However, at this moment, I was nearly hit by a vulture which happened to be at that altitude. It was a very close miss and I had to take avoiding action. I believe that this distraction was the reason that I missed my normal action of lowering the gear. I then advised turning onto left base for Runway XX. Then advised turning onto final for Runway XX. There were 2 aircraft waiting for take-off as I approached. As I flared for landing, the aircraft landed heavily and I found that the gear had not been lowered, the aircraft suffered a corresponding prop strike and the engine stopped. Aircraft came to a stop on the runway. Other than the prop strike, there does not seem to be other significant damage since the stowed mainwheel on the Europa protrudes below the fuselage for approximately half its diameter (Somewhat similar to a DC3). There were no injuries and no leaks of fuel or oil. RECOMMENDATION: Aircraft should be fitted with an alarm such that when the airspeed falls below 65 knots, an audible alert is sounded to remind pilot to lower the landing gear. Synopsis Europa XS pilot reported a gear up landing as a result of being distracted by a near bird strike and the lack of a landing gear warning system.
Time / Day Date : 201705 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ROA.Airport State Reference : VA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 13000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ROA Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Medium Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Descent Airspace.Class E : ROA Component Aircraft Component : Communication Systems Problem : Failed Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1445021 Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1445024 Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Bird / Animal Detector. Person : Flight Crew
Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : In-flight Result.General : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Weather Narrative: 1 We were struck by lightning during descent into ROA at about 13,000. We were told there would be some moderate turbulence and heavy rain. No thunderstorms were forecast and METAR and T AFs all looked acceptable. There were clouds everywhere. Since we only had one pack we could not cruise above 25,000 and this prevented us from flying above the weather. We were asked to descend a bit earlier and started getting vectored around to avoid weather and there wasn't anything noticeable painted on the weather radar and out of nowhere we were struck by lightning. The turbulence was bad and bumpy till touchdown. When I inspected the plane after landing, that's when I realized we also had a bird strike. Narrative: 2 Radar displayed light to moderate rain. Queried ATC on weather location and intensity. They agreed with our route and headings. We continued our descent to the field; roughly 2 minutes Of increasing rain and turbulence up to heavy rain and moderate/heavy turbulence. Once through the worst of it, and it started slacking off a little, we were struck. We lost windshield heat but regained it with a switch reset. We also lost the number one comm system. The RMIJ was functioning correctly but we were unable to reestablish communications until we used the Number 2 system. Synopsis Air carrier flight crew reported being struck by lightning on descent to ROA. Evidence of a bird strike was also noted after landing.
Time / Day Date : 201704 Local Time Of Day : 0001-0600 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ORD. Tower State Reference : IL Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 4000 Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : C90 Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Large Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Climb Airspace.CIass B : ORD Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.Tower : ORD Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Medium Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Climb Route In Use : Vectors Airspace.Class B : ORD Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Facility : ORD. Tower Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Local Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1443851 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Communication Breakdown.Party1 : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC
Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Person / Animal / Bird Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Executed Go Around / Missed Approach Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Manuals Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 A departure reported hitting a coyote on Runway 9L resulting in the runway being closed. The following aircraft, Aircraft X, was instructed to execute a missed approach. After coordinating with the Runway 9R controller, I issued an interim 040 heading and climb to 4000 feet followed by a turn to 320 (which was the coordinated heading with 9R). After issuing the final turn, I instructed Aircraft X to contact departure. Following Aircraft X, Aircraft Y was also given missed approach instructions and issued heading 040 to get in trail of Aircraft X. At this time, I noticed Aircraft X had remained on the 040 heading. Aircraft Y was approximately 4 miles behind Aircraft X and nearing the boundary of my airspace and the only other aircraft in the vicinity was not in conflict with either missed approach, so I chose to ship Aircraft Y to departure before coordinating with other local controllers which was done. After coordinating with the departure controller, I learned Aircraft X was instructed to fly 040 and climb to 6000 feet. While this is not standard practice, Aircraft X was out of the tower's airspace so not technically wrong. Better understanding between ORD Tower and C90 regarding missed approaches and why things are done certain ways would help. Synopsis ORD Local Controller reported issuing an aircraft a go-around was then issued nonstandard go-around instructions by the Departure Controller.
Time / Day Date : 201703 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : Mixed Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 3000 Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B737-700 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Component 10 Aircraft Component : Vertical Stabilizer/Fin Aircraft Reference : X Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.FIight Crew : Captain Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 150 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 12000 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1437095 Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying
Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 250 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1437096 Human Factors : Other / Unknown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Bird / Animal Detector. Person : Ground Personnel When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate Result.General : Maintenance Action Result.General : Flight Cancelled / Delayed Result.Aircraft : Aircraft Damaged Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Primary Problem : Environment - Non Weather Related Narrative: 1 Just before pushback one of our Ramp Agents came into the cockpit and showed me a picture of what he thought was a dent on the vertical stabilizer. I proceeded outside and checked to make sure there was a dent that I was looking at about three by two inches about 40 ft high (1.5 ft below the top of the vertical stabilizer). I called Dispatch and he passed me to Maintenance Control. I reported what was found. Maintenance Control informed me that there was a small dent already reported on that area. I told them this was not small and it looked like there was some damage to the aircraft. They told me to write it up and to call Contract Maintenance. Luckily we had two of our Mechanics at the Station. They came to the aircraft and were able to get close to the dent and take pictures. They called Maintenance and after conference with them they informed me that the checkup was going to take a few hours. I informed the gate agent and Dispatch and the flight was canceled. When and how the dent happened is totally unknown. Narrative: 2 We swapped into this aircraft. I performed the walk around in moderate rain with overcast clouds. I did not note any defects. While taxiing to the Runway the Controller reported birds near the runway. We did not see any birds, and we reported that to ATC. We flew the first 15 to 30 minutes of the flight in rain. We had a normal landing at destination which was sunny with scattered clouds. While preparing to leave the gate for our return flight, a Ramp Worker came to the flight deck and reported that he noticed "what appeared to be a hole at the top of the vertical stabilizer." The Captain went outside to inspect the aircraft. He returned, and made a Maintenance writeup for what appeared to be a hole in the leading edge of the vertical stabilizer, approximately 1.5 ft from the top (about 40 ft above the ground). He called Maintenance Control with the writeup. Company Maintenance Techs happened to be present. They inspected the damage as best as they could, due to the height of the damage, and confirmed repair would be needed. The flight was canceled due to the required maintenance. Synopsis
3737 flight crew reported they were informed of possible damage near the top of the vertical stabilizer. After maintenance examination, the aircraft was taken out of service.
Time / Day Date : 201702 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 1500 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility Light : Dusk Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.UNICOM : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Corporate Make Model Name : Beechjet 400 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.CIass E : ZZZ Component Aircraft Component : Turbine Engine Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Failed Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Corporate Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument : 20 Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification. Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 8000 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 25 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 3000 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1426769 Human Factors : Workload
Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Bird / Animal Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 Had just crossed over midfield getting ready to enter left downwind for at ZZZ (uncontrolled field). Aircraft was level at 1500ft, flaps 20deg, 160kts IAS. Just as I was getting ready to turn downwind I saw a flash go by the left window (what appeared to be a goose from surrounding birds). The bird flew into the left engine causing the NI to start rolling back. There were no warning lights (oil pressure, hydraulic, etc) as at that time the core of the engine was still running. However due to a bad vibration caused from the strike we had to shut the engine down. We continued in the pattern and landed safely with no issues. Did not declare an emergency (was on Unicom with no other traffic) and didn't roll the trucks as there was no fire (just single engine landing). Synopsis BE40 Captain reported a bird strike in the number I engine while on downwind at an uncontrolled airport. Landing on one engine was accomplished shortly after.
Time / Day Date : 201701 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : SMF.Airport State Reference : CA Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 1000 Environment Flight Conditions : IMC Weather Elements / Visibility : Cloudy Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : SMF Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8737-800 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Approach Airspace.CIass C : SMF Component Aircraft Component : ILS/VOR Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1417841 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Workload Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Person : 2
Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1418073 Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Workload Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Unstabilized Approach Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Bird / Animal Detector. Person : Flight Crew Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.FIight Crew : Executed Go Around / Missed Approach Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 This was my fourth approach down to low minimums on this date, which was having micro burst alerts and windshear alerts on the departure end. Then reported windshear on takeoff and a special Cat 11 approach to mins back at [the departure airport]. The third leg to SMF required a CAT Ill approach, but as we were in the approach the weather started to lift. About 1000 ft. we encountered a flock of between 60-80 geese on a collision course, just as we were trying find an escape route the flock separated and went on both sides of the aircraft. We continued the approach when at approximately 600 agl I received NO Alll in the hud, at which point we executed a missed approach. As we setup to come back for another approach the weather had risen to CAT I and was getting better. We setup for a CAT I ILS approaching 1000 agl we had more geese to maneuver around, we were stabilized at 1000agI and still vmc. Not long after the 1000 foot call I saw more geese staying centered on my windshield. I started to maneuver left and high to avoid the geese, after passing the geese I was high and left of course, I started correcting back to course and my FO said I was 2 dots high so I said correcting.
I lower the nose too much and got a SINK RATE -I corrected the sink rate and had the runway in sight. We touched down within the first 1500 ft. I was so focused on the runway and getting back to stabilized approach that my First Officer's call out to go around did not register until just prior to touchdown. First I feel the stress of avoiding multiple geese strikes caused me to get tunnel vision to establish a stabilized approach and land the airplane safely. My First Officer correctly said 'go around' however in my intense concentration it didn't register. The outcome was a safe landing and no geese strikes, but my correct course of action should have been a go- around. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis Boeing 737 flight crew encountered a flock of geese at 1,000ft. The Captain maneuvered to avoid the birds and ended up high and left of the ILS. During his correction, the crew got a sink rate call out and continued to land in an un-stabilized approach condition.
Time / Day Date : 201701 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Environment Flight Conditions : IMC Weather Elements / Visibility Weather Elements / Visibility Aircraft Reference : X ATC/ Advisory.Tower : ZZZ : Turbulence : Icing ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B767-300 and 300 ER Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Flight Phase : Taxi Flight Phase : Takeoff Airspace.Class B : ZZZ Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1415233 Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Bird / Animal Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result. General : Maintenance Action Result.Flight Crew : Returned To Departure Airport Result.FIight Crew : Landed As Precaution Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Result.Aircraft : Aircraft Damaged Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Ambiguous Narrative: 1 Company Policy Equipment / Tooling Environment - Non Weather Related Procedure Because of the temperature and snow condition we had a hold over time of 10-20 min. We called Dispatch to ask if we could get deiced near the only active runway, but were told we had to use the company deice on the ramp because we don't have a contract with the ZZZ airport for deicing. We already asked ATC for a closer runway to make hold over time and we were told the only available Runway was XYZ and to expect a lengthy delay. After we began taxi ATC offered us Runway X with no delay but it had not been used for 40 min. We accepted. We had a VI of 122 and VR of 138. At approximately 125 kts and after the VI call we saw an extremely large flock of birds on the runway. Estimated at 500-1000 birds, covering the last 6000 feet of runway. They lifted off as we rotated. It sounded like popcorn as we struck dozens of them. The aircraft continued climbing normally and the engines were normal. We contacted Dispatch and did not notice any abnormality. We were told to continue. As we transitioned to high speed/altitude we noticed a severe vibration in both yolks and rudder peddle sets. We advised ATC and returned to ZZZ. Upon landing we noted dozens of bird strikes on the wind screens, pitot tubes, engine inlets, fan blades, flaps, fuselage, gear doors, and bottom of the wings. Maintenance noted feathers in the left engine stator blades. ZZZ ops informed us that the runway was closed after our pirep, no other aircraft departed after us, and wildlife management collected over two dozen dead birds off the runway. If we would have a contract in place to allow us to deice near the runway this incident would never have happened. As a line pilot I'm starting to feel we are shifting to a profit first mentality. The fact that the company does not have a contract with ZZZ airport for deicing is the driving force in this incident. When the weather is low/snowy the ZZZ airport only uses the XY's for takeoff. With cold temperatures causing 20 minute maximum holdover times, a taxi can not be made within that time, unless deice would occur closer to the active runway. Stop risking my life by not providing me the tools required to operate safely. Put safety first, and do what it needed to make sure crews can choose the safest action, by using the active, safest, runway. Stop risking my life to save money. I feel I have the right to know the name of the person who caused this near catastrophic accident. Who decided that we don't need additional deice capability in a snow prone airport that can have 3+ mile taxis on snow covered taxiways? Synopsis 8767-300 First Officer reported departing on an unused available runway to avoid exceeding their hold over time. In doing so, the crew encountered a flock of birds and returned to departure airport as a precaution.
Time / Day Date : 201612 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 2500 Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8737-800 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Climb Airspace.CIass B : ZZZ Component Aircraft Component : Turbine Engine Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.Flight Crew : Captain Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 157 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 10000 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1409596 Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Bird / Animal Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.General : Maintenance Action
Result.Flight Crew : Landed As Precaution Result.FIight Crew : Returned To Departure Airport Result.Aircraft : Aircraft Damaged Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Primary Problem : Environment - Non Weather Related Narrative: 1 We experienced vibration during climb. We [advised ATC], requested level off, and returned to [departure airport]. At the gate, Maintenance noted bird strike to number 1 engine with major core damage. ATC was a great help. Synopsis 3737-800 Captain reported returning to the departure airport after noticing vibration in climb. On the ground, Maintenance reported "major core damage" to the #1 engine from a bird strike.
Time / Day Date : 201612 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 2000 Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8737-800 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Climb Airspace.CIass B : ZZZ Component Aircraft Component : Turbine Engine Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1409294 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Smoke / Fire / Fumes / Odor Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Bird / Animal Detector. Person : Passenger Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight
Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action Result.FIight Crew : Landed As Precaution Result.Flight Crew : Returned To Departure Airport Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Primary Problem : Environment - Non Weather Related Narrative: 1 While climbing out, at approximately 2000 MSL, we experienced a loud popping sound, engine and aircraft vibration. Engine number 1 had a slight loss of NI. We noticed a smell, but no smoke. We advised ATC, and requested vectors back. We talked with the Flight Attendants who reported Passengers had seen birds near the number I engine and saw sparks coming out of the back of the engine. The Flight Attendants (FA) also reported the smell, but no smoke. We made a PA to the Passengers and returned to the field, where the Captain made an uneventful landing. Synopsis B737-800 First Officer reported a possible bird strike at 2,000 feet in the left engine during climb out causing a popping noise and some vibration. An odor is also detected and the crew elected to return to the departure airport.
Time / Day Date : 201612 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Dusk Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Small Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turboprop Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Taxi Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1407062 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Situational Awareness Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Ground Personnel Analyst Callback : Attempted Events Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Person / Animal / Bird Detector. Person : Flight Crew Were Passengers Involved In Event : When Detected : Taxi Result.GeneraI : Physical Injury / Incapacitation Result.GeneraI : Flight Cancelled / Delayed Result.Flight Crew : Returned To Gate Result.Flight Crew : Became Reoriented Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Airport Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Staffing Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Taxiing out for first flight out of ZZZ, weed whacking was taking place on the south side of taxiway. Watching to make sure my wing cleared two men mowing a taxi light, I then looked forward to continue the taxi. An instant later I heard a "thump." I then pulled off the taxiway on to the inner ramp area and shut down, assuming I'd hit one the dogs that run around the airport grounds on a regular basis. I was shocked to find a man, face down on the side of the taxiway. His coworkers surrounded him and helped him to his feet. He was standing erect and steady. Knew his name and the date. Apparently not injured badly. I attended to my two revenue passengers returning the aircraft to the main ramp. Secured the aircraft and called [the operations center]. An ambulance was summoned for the injured worker. Our ramp agent, was a non-revenue passenger on the flight and took pictures of the scene. He stated that none of the workers were wearing high visibility vests which I also observed. They seldom have in the past also. This has been a recurring problem on ZZZ since I first came here. The operation is never NOTAMed on an uncontrolled airfield. The pilots just have to see and avoid people and animals at all times. I don't think the person that collided with my wingtip was one of the men I was watching. I think he must have been stooped down in the grass. The only option to add to safety of the situation would be to stop completely until, hopefully, the workers moved well clear of the taxiway. This is one of the many operational deficiencies that we, the pilot, have to deals with on ZZZ on a daily basis. Synopsis While taxiing for takeoff, one wing of a light twin struck a ground worker who was apparently cutting weeds around a taxi light. The pilot stopped and shutdown the aircraft to check on the individual. The individual was face down, but recovered to stand erect, and he knew his name and the date. An ambulance was summoned for the injured worker.
Time / Day Date : 201611 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : BUR.Airport State Reference : CA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 100 Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : BUR Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B737 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Landing Airspace.CIass C : BUR Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 208 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1404878 Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Function.FIight Crew : Captain Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 151 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1404908 Events
Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Person / Animal / Bird Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Primary Problem : Environment - Non Weather Related Narrative: 1 On short final (about 100 ft) I saw a flock of birds moving north away from the runway. I mentioned the birds to the Captain and he acknowledged. Since they were moving away elected to land. As the main landing gear was touching down a flock of birds (not sure if they were the same) flew in front of the aircraft from the north. There were multiple bird strikes to the aircraft to include on my canopy. I could still see so I kept the Pilot Flying roll and completed the landing roll. We brought the aircraft to a stop and informed the Tower of the bird strikes on the approach end of Runway 08. Tower was surprised and sent out Ops. We pulled into our gate. On inspection of the aircraft we saw multiple bird strikes to include left wing fuselage, and number 2 engine. Ops reported 20 dead pigeons. We contacted Tower by phone as well. Narrative: 2 Because we were so close to the runway about to flare I thought the First Officer made a good decision not to go around. However, right as we touched down that same flock of birds reversed course and flew right over the runway in our path. Synopsis 3737 flight crew reported a bird strike with about 20 pigeons while on short final to BUR.
Time / Day Date : 201611 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 2600 Environment Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : A320 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Climb Route In Use.SID : ZZZ Airspace.CIass D : ZZZ Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1404256 Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Bird / Animal Detector. Person : Flight Crew Detector. Person : Flight Attendant When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Returned To Departure Airport Result.FIight Crew : Landed As Precaution Result.Aircraft : Aircraft Damaged Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Primary Problem : Environment - Non Weather Related Narrative: 1
When climbing through 2600 ft on are way up to 9000 ft we encountered a flock of geese without warning. Upon impact we had a high engine vibration on the number one engine and the flight attendants reported a foul smell after a bird got sucked into the number 2 pack inlet. We [advised ATC and coordinated a return] with an overweight landing. After landing the emergency trucks inspected the aircraft for damage letting us taxi to the gate. Synopsis A320 First Officer reported a return to the departure airport after sustaining damage to the #1 engine and #2 pack inlet door.
Time / Day Date : 201611 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZZZ.TRACON State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 9000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8737-800 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Climb Airspace.CIass E : ZZZ Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1403252 Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1403245 Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Bird / Animal Detector. Person : Flight Crew
When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action Result.Flight Crew : Landed As Precaution Result.FIight Crew : Returned To Departure Airport Result.Aircraft : Aircraft Damaged Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Primary Problem : Environment - Non Weather Related Narrative: 1 We were climbing out at about 9000 feet when I saw approximately a half dozen medium sized birds heading toward the windscreen and down the right side of the airplane. One hit right above my head and the others hit some parts of the aircraft on the right. The audible booms were very noticeable as was the obvious pitch sound change coming from the right engine. We immediately received a call from the FAs asking what the loud booms were about. All engine indications appeared normal and within limits. Flight controls were also functioning properly. However, given what we saw, heard, and felt we made an immediate decision to return to [departure airport]. We were given priority handling and landed uneventfully. Upon exterior inspection of the airplane we saw blood stains right over the cockpit window and on the forward, inner wing root, right side. We also saw significant damage done to the right engine cowl and several fan blades. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis 3737-800 flight crew reported returning to departure airport after experiencing multiple bird strikes on departure. After landing "significant damage" was found to the right engine cowl and fan blades.
Time / Day Date : 201611 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZZZ.TRACON State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 2200 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Widebody, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Climb Airspace.CIass E : ZZZ Component Aircraft Component : Turbine Engine Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Failed Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1401353 Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying
Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1401354 Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Weight And Balance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Bird / Animal Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Result.Flight Crew : Returned To Departure Airport Result.Flight Crew : Landed As Precaution Result.FIight Crew : Inflight Shutdown Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Primary Problem : Environment - Non Weather Related Narrative: 1 We departed [and] were given a right turn to a 125 heading on the climb out. While on climb out at about 2200 ft we had a bird strike in the left engine. We leveled off at 3000 ft and complied with the engine severe damage checklist and secured the engine. We also [advised ATC] and returned for an overweight landing. The landing was smooth and we had no other problems. Narrative: 2 Next I heard a loud bang and engine vibration. Looking at the engine gauges, I confirmed a left engine failure. I called left engine failure, turned off the auto throttle arm switch, and confirmed MCT (Maximum Continuous Thrust) visually. Synopsis Air carrier flight crew reported returning to departure airport due to a bird strike shortly after takeoff that resulted in failure of the left engine.
Time / Day Date : 201611 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B737-800 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Climb Airspace.CIass B : ZZZ Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 136 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 3601 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1400331 Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Person / Animal / Bird Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Bird / Animal Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result. General : Maintenance Action Result.Flight Crew : Landed As Precaution Result.FIight Crew : Returned To Departure Airport Result.Aircraft : Aircraft Damaged Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Primary Problem : Environment - Non Weather Related Narrative: 1 Boarding, pushback and taxi out to runway were all uneventful. We were cleared for takeoff on Runway XY. I was the Pilot Flying and the Captain was the Pilot Monitoring. Shortly after gear retraction, the Captain said "bird"! As I looked up, I saw a large dark gray bird disappear under the nose. Moments later, there was a loud thump and the number I engine vibration gauge began to rise rapidly, while at the same time a vibration was felt and heard by both of us, as well as a strong burning flesh odor coming from the vents. I began to pull the number 1 throttle toward idle. As the engine NI was reduced to 30 to 40 percent, the vibration stopped. We continued to climb and cleaned the aircraft up at 1000 feet AGL. When the Captain checked in with Departure Control, he explained that we had ingested a bird and needed to level off around 5000 feet and would need some vectors to complete some items. The Departure Controller gave us vectors to the north and gave us instructions to level off at 6000 feet. We decided to keep the number 1 engine running near idle, as this took away all the vibration and allowed us to keep the services that the engine was still providing (hydraulics, electrics, etc). I took over ATC communications while the Captain made a PA, talked to the Flight Attendants and to Maintenance, who he asked to relay our situation to Dispatch. He ran the numbers in the Optimum Performance Capable (OPC) and determined we would be landing overweight. I suggested because of our overweight status in an -800 [that we use] the longest runway available. The Captain advised ATC of our runway request and told them we were ready for vectors back to the airport. Approximately ten miles from the airport, the Captain took over as the Pilot Flying. The approach and landing were smooth and uneventful. We cleared the runway and the fire trucks followed us to the gate, with no indications of fire or fluids leaking. Synopsis 3737-800 First Officer reported returning to departure airport after experiencing increased vibration associated with ingesting a large bird into #1 engine.
Time / Day Date : 201611 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 4000 Environment Flight Conditions : IMC Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : A321 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Climb Airspace.CIass B : ZZZ Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1399956 Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Bird / Animal Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Landed As Precaution Result.FIight Crew : Returned To Departure Airport Result.Aircraft : Aircraft Damaged Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Primary Problem : Environment - Non Weather Related Narrative: 1
I was the pilot flying on this leg. We were on the departure route climbing through 4000 feet [and] as I began the left turn I caught a flash of something white out of the front of the aircraft and felt a thump on the nose of the aircraft. We were IMC at the time. First Officer said "What was that?" I replied "Bird Strike!" At that time we got an #2 Engine Stall ECAM that came up, but it immediately went out. [At] this moment all engine parameters appeared normal. We asked ATC for a level off, which we did and leveled off at 6000 ft. We also got a burnt duck smell as well. I handed control over to FO so I could assess the situation. All systems were normal, I scrolled through the system pages to verify this as well. There were no further ECAM messages to deal with. I [advised] ATC and I briefed the Flight Attendants about returning to [departure airport] and gave them the time to prepare. I then made a PA to the passengers about what we were going to do. I sent a message to Dispatch via ACARS about what was going on. We then briefed the approach. I took back control of the aircraft for the approach and landing because the FO's window was covered [with] the remnants of the bird. Normal landing and after we stopped the aircraft I instructed the passengers to "Remain Seated" and we asked the emergency response crew to look the aircraft over which they did. We then taxied to the gate. After shutdown at the gate I entered the bird strike into the Aircraft Maintenance Logbook and spoke to the mechanics. We walked around the aircraft and found damage to the radome and the #2 engine. Synopsis A321 Captain reported returning to the departure airport after experiencing a bird strike on initial climb.
Time / Day Date : 201610 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 500 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B737 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Climb Component Aircraft Component : Turbine Engine Aircraft Reference : X Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (AT P) Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 20000 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 200 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 1500 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1394633 Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP)
Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 15750 Experience. Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 143 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 2500 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1394637 Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Bird / Animal Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.General : Maintenance Action Result.Flight Crew : Returned To Departure Airport Result.FIight Crew : Landed As Precaution Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Primary Problem : Environment - Non Weather Related Narrative: 1 Approximately 500 feet (after gear retraction but prior to flap retraction) jolt/yaw accompanied by bang similar to those experienced in simulator (associated with severe damage). I was hand flying (and focused on that) and by the time I looked at the engine instruments, all appeared normal. At the same time a strong burning smell was experienced. We quickly decided to return and not continue. We communicated with departure and stated our intentions. A few minutes after the odor started, it began to dissipate. ATC gave us a heading and assigned 9000 as an altitude. I engaged the autopilot (after the FO reminded me it was available). The FO ran the after takeoff checklist as well as set up the box for the return. I called the flight attendants and informed them of our situation. They informed me that they saw torching in the left engine when the bang occurred. The FO and I concluded that we most likely ingested a bird into the left engine and that the engine had a compressor stall. I sent a message to dispatch informing them of our condition and intent to return. Dispatch requested the emergency equipment for us. The FO and I discussed our landing overweight, and continued back for an uneventful landing (overweight). Narrative: 2 At approximately 1000 feet agl we heard a loud bang followed by the aircraft yawing and a pronounced burning smell in the cabin. I was the monitoring pilot, I noticed the NI indication dropped by approximately 20% and then returned to normal. Both engines were now operating normally and the burning smell quickly dissipated. We continued climbing and cleaned up the airplane normally. The Captain and I discussed what we thought was the issue, and determined we had probably hit a bird. We made the decision to return. I coordinated with ATC our intentions. ATC then gave us vectors for an ILS. Communications with the flight attendant revealed they had seen a flame come from the left engine. The Captain at this point continued to fly and took over communications with ATC, flight attendants etc., while I ran through the appropriate check lists and programmed the FMC for our return. The approach and landing were normal. Upon inspection of the left engine, it was determined there were remnants of a bird on the fan blades. Synopsis
3737 flight crew reported a bird strike below 1,000 feet on departure which caused a momentary compressor stall before resuming normal operation. Flight returns to the departure airport for an overweight landing.
Time / Day Date : 201610 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8737-800 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Takeoff Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (AT P) Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 14 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 2850 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1394074 Events Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Person / Animal / Bird Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Returned To Gate Result.Flight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.FIight Crew : Rejected Takeoff Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Result.Aircraft : Aircraft Damaged Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Airport
Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Primary Problem : Environment - Non Weather Related Narrative: 1 Very shortly after calling VI (VI was 132 knots) we noticed multiple large white birds in our takeoff path. We heard multiple (at least 2) loud thumps as we impacted the birds. The Captain rejected the takeoff and we came to a stop with approximately 3000 FT remaining on the runway. We made a call to Tower notifying them of the rejected takeoff. We cleared the runway, made a PA to the Passengers explaining what had happened and then coordinated with Ground to find a remote parking spot for brake cool down and to have Maintenance check for hot brakes. After approximately 40 minutes we taxied to Gate and shut the aircraft down without further incident. The pitot static tube on the right side of the aircraft had feathers stuck to it and the number 2 engine had blood and bent fan blades, indicating that a seagull had been ingested by the engine. Synopsis 3737-800 First Officer reported while at VI speed encountered a bird strike so they aborted the takeoff.
Time / Day Date : 201610 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : EMB ERJ 170/175 ER/LR Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1393901 Human Factors : Training / Qualification Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Ground Personnel Events Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Person / Animal / Bird Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors
Narrative: 1 As we were preparing to finish paperwork and push off of the gate, the ramp brought up their cargo load report and informed me that a dog was loaded in the aft cargo bin. They had also marked on the load sheet that the Live Animal was in the aft cargo bin. I informed them that the animal had to be loaded in the FWD cargo bin or else it would die. I then went out to make sure that they removed the animal and loaded it into the FWD cargo bin. I also informed all of the ground crew that live animals must always be loaded in the FWD Cargo bin on all ERJ-170/175's. They moved the animal, and we continued on with a corrected load sheet. Be sure that the ground crew IS aware of the type of aircraft and that they are following the correct procedures. Synopsis ERJ-170 Captain noted a dog had been loaded in the aft cargo bin. Because the animal would freeze in that pit during flight, he had ramp personnel move the dog to the forward cargo pit and alerted the ramp personnel that animals must always be put in the forward hold.
Time / Day Date : 201609 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 2500 Environment Flight Conditions : Mixed Weather Elements / Visibility : Thunderstorm Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : 5 Light : Night Ceiling.SingIe Value : 5000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8757-200 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Cargo / Freight Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.Class B : ZZZ Component Aircraft Component : Trailing Edge Flap Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience.Flight Crew. Total : 13000 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 70 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 4500 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1389168 Events
Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Bird / Animal Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action Result.FIight Crew : Overcame Equipment Problem Result.Flight Crew : Executed Go Around / Missed Approach Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Primary Problem : Environment - Non Weather Related Narrative: 1 Vectored to visual Runway XXL, using the Loc as a backup. FO flying, approximately 2500 ft MSL FO asked for Flaps 15, and received a TE FLAP DISAGREE message with light. Flaps showed no split and were stopped between flaps 5 and 15. I checked lever in detent which it was and informed FO we were going to have to discontinue the approach. Informed tower and told them we had a problem and need to discontinue. Went into altitude hold and continue on the LOC for a couple of minutes for coordination. Followed the vectors, climbed to 4000 ft and began the QRH procedures with the FO flying. Many thunderstorms around, so there were many turns, FO took radios as procedure was accomplished. Alternate Flaps extended to Flaps 15 and followed the procedure to stop there and land with Flaps 15 and Vref 20. Checked Non-Normal landing distance in QRH, (old 757, was not going to type in the freehand message). Plenty of room, with approximately 4000 ft of runway required and runway YY being 13000 ft. Selected autobrakes 3 as to reduce brake heating and there was three times the runway needed. We told approach of our aircraft state. Requested runway YY and equipment standing by. I decided to take landing, FO agreed. Setup and briefed visual to YY with the ILS as a backup. Landed without incident and made high speed taxiway off runway and stopped off runway. Requested the emergency crew inspect a/c for wheel condition and fire. None noted. Taxied to ramp, I believe some emergency crews followed us to parking. Left aircraft in landing configuration during taxi to block in. Informed ground and emergency crew that we were doing this. Left all switches in the configuration the QRH mandated. Called the ramp for parking and informed them of the same. Mechanics found feathers of large bird in right TE flaps. Suspected this caused the aircraft to sense the disagree, having probably hit it in transit. Aircraft was cleaned and inspected, and the appropriate tests to the flaps were accomplished to allow the aircraft to return to service for the return leg. I called dispatch at block in to inform them of the situation, they were not informed during the event. This was in my thought not appropriate since we were not rushed, but the atmosphere was very busy being in the vectors with the storms and congestion. I did not want to keep the crew in split operations too long, with FO both flying and talking, as the navigation around the storms was very close. I did not feel it warranted any other input since the conclusion was very apparent, thus elected not to include any further inputs from ops or maintenance. Synopsis 3757-200 Captain reported receiving a TE FLAP DISAGREE message on approach. On the ground, evidence of a bird strike on the flaps was noted.
Time / Day Date : 201609 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 5000 Environment Flight Conditions : IMC Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8737 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Approach Airspace.CIass E : ZZZ Component Aircraft Component : Turbine Engine Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 18000 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 997 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1389136 Analyst Callback : Attempted Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Bird / Animal Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight
Result.Flight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.FIight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Result.Aircraft : Aircraft Damaged Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Primary Problem : Environment - Non Weather Related Narrative: 1 We were IMC, being vectored for the ILS. The autopilot and autothrottles were engaged, and plane was descending out of 5000 for 4000 feet when we felt something hit the plane with a WHUMP. Almost immediately, we smelled something burnt (not electrical), and the F/As called to report burnt smell and smoke in the cabin. All engine and system indications appeared normal at this time. Within moments, the plane began to level at 4000 feet, and the engines began to spool up. An increasing vibration/shaking of the plane was felt. I looked at the engine gauges and saw that the right engine was spooling up past 65% NI, but the left engine was stagnant at approx. 54% NI, with the trend arc indicating more thrust was being demanded. I realized we had an issue with the left engine, and immediately disconnected the autothrottles and retarded the left throttle. With the left throttle retarded to near idle, the vibration/shaking ceased. I attempted to spool up the left engine once again, but near 50% NI, the vibration/shaking would ensue. All other indications were normal. I retarded the throttle enough to prevent the vibration and left it there. Realizing we most likely had substantial damage to the left engine, I instructed the F/O to "[Advise ATC]. I want to land immediately." About this time, we had emerged from IMC into VMC conditions, and I acquired the airport visually off our right side. I disconnected the autopilot and began turning towards the airport, and transmitted to ATC that I had the field in sight and wanted visual approach clearance now. They immediately cleared us for the visual. The final approach and landing were otherwise uneventful. Since I didn't know the status of the left engine, I elected to use idle reverse and max autobrakes on landing. Emergency equipment visually inspected our aircraft, and then we taxied to the gate. Synopsis B737 Captain reported a bird strike that damaged the #1 engine while on approach in IMC
Time / Day Date : 201609 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZZZ.TRACON State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 5000 Environment Flight Conditions : IMC Weather Elements / Visibility : Rain Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B737 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use : Vectors Airspace.CIass E : ZZZ Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 6384 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 94 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 1604 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1388837 Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Bird / Animal Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Result.Aircraft : Aircraft Damaged
Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Primary Problem : Environment - Non Weather Related Narrative: 1 While being vectored for approach to XXL we were IMC and flying through a rain shower. I heard a thump and felt a shudder and then a funny smell was detected. The foul smell continued and we received a call from the cabin reporting smoke. We asked for priority landing on XXL. Our jumpseater ([Company] 8777 first officer) took care of communications between the flight attendants and passengers. The Captain continued flying the aircraft and I handled the relay of information to ATC and assisted the Captain with his approach. Once we broke out we requested clearance for the visual and proceeded with approach. It was reported by the cabin that we sustained damage to an engine and leading edge devices and the Captain reported vibrations on the number 1 engine when thrust was applied. The landing was made and we made a decision to taxi off the runway and stop to have both engines inspected for fire/damage. It had been reported that there was a fire coming out of the left tail pipe. The fire department reported no fire and damage to the number 2 engine. We then taxied to the gate and parked without further incident. Synopsis B737 First Officer reported the #1 engine and some leading edge devices were damaged from a bird strike on approach.
Time / Day Date : 201608 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 2000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : PA-28 Cherokee/Archer/Dakota/Pillan/Warrior Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : SVFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.CIass E : ZZZ Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Private Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 175 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 30 ASRS Report Number.Accesslon Number : 1385369 Events Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Excursion From Assigned Altitude Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Bird / Animal Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Landed As Precaution Result.Aircraft : Aircraft Damaged Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Primary Problem : Environment - Non Weather Related
Narrative: 1 I was [15 miles from my destination at 2,000 feet when] I experienced a weird noise like an explosion and I realized there was an impact on my right wing. My fiancé mentioned that it was a goose [and] although I was flying VFR I didn't see [it] coming. Right after impact, as a result of changing shape of the wing by impact, I realized airflow wasn't happening and the airplane started losing altitude, though I added power and tried to climb. I maintained 1,700 feet and contacted Tower, [advised them of the situation] to enter their airspace and perform an emergency landing to any available runway. Since I was 15 miles out, I mentioned my position to them, and then I plugged in squawk code of "7600." I also mentioned [a] bird strike [and] two people on board to Tower. I had visual of [the runway] and performed an emergency landing as trained during my private pilot license training. After we landed there were many emergency vehicles and people were [ready] if something was necessary. I was really afraid of burning in the air just because of the pressure of air and fuel on the wing, however I kept my awareness and flew the airplane, acted as a pilot in command. After we landed I taxied my airplane to the [FBO] and left the airplane there for maintenance service. I should also mention that Tower, [when I was] about 3 miles out, mentioned bird activities at 1,500 feet, and I diverted a little bit to right [to avoid] them, and I didn't lose my engine. Engine was totally working, however I lost altitude and airplane was [deviating] to the right. Synopsis PA-28 pilot reported his wing was damaged as a result of an inflight goose strike.
Time / Day Date : 201608 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 600 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal 10 Make Model Name : Citation V/UItra/Encore (C560) Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Initial Climb Route In Use : Vectors Airspace.CIass D : ZZZ Component Aircraft Component : Turbine Engine Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 2000 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 20 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 425 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1379132 Events
Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Bird / Animal Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Returned To Departure Airport Result.FIight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Result.Flight Crew : Inflight Shutdown Result.Aircraft : Aircraft Damaged Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Primary Problem : Environment - Non Weather Related Narrative: 1 Shortly after liftoff at approximately 600 feet AGL, I saw a bird moving from right to left across the path of the aircraft. Immediately after seeing the bird, the bird struck the aircraft on the left side. As PIC, I elected to continue the flight. After being cleared to and leveling at 10,000 MSL the Master Warning indicator began flashing and the L OIL PRESSURE LOW light activated. I immediately pulled power on Engine 1 (Left) to idle and observed the Left oil pressure indicator to be well below normal. I contacted Approach to alert them to our situation and requested an immediate return to [departure airport]. Once the airplane was established in an appropriate heading and descent for a return to the airport, I elected to shut down Engine 1 (Left) to prevent any further damage. I brought Engine I power lever back over the gate and it was successfully shut down. I then conducted an approach and landing. After landing, I was able to taxi the aircraft to parking. Synopsis CE-560 pilot reported returning to the departure airport after shutting down the left engine because of low oil pressure following a bird strike shortly after takeoff.
Time / Day Date : 201607 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Regional Jet 200 ER/LR (CRJ200) Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Takeoff Component Aircraft Component : Gear Lever/SeIector Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Improperly Operated Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1375987 Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Speed : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Person / Animal / Bird Detector.Automation : Aircraft Other Automation Detector. Person : Flight Crew
When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action Result.Flight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.FIight Crew : Overcame Equipment Problem Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 On takeoff at VI we struck a bird with the left windscreen. PM didn't call "positive rate," nor did the PF call "gear up." PF called for "after takeoff check" and PM said "after takeoff check complete." The gear remained down without PF noticing. I was the pilot flying. Upon reaching 15,000 ft I realized the gear was down and I slowed to 220 kts and called for gear up. Having exceeded the 200 kts gear retraction speed limitation the EICAS Warning "gear disagree" illuminated on the display. We ran the QRH and the EICAS warning gear disagree went away once we reached 210 kts on our way to 200 kts. We continued on to our destination with no further issues. Upon arrival we contacted maintenance and told them of both the bird strike and the gear disagree and its cause. Maintenance determined that a visual inspection of the aircraft would suffice if no damage was observed. As far as the gear disagree maintenance determined that it didn't require further inspection. Cause of this event was pilot distraction. The bird we struck at VI and its remains were distracting. Due to the distraction we didn't make the proper callouts then didn't execute our after takeoff checklist properly. After that is was a matter of misdiagnosing the reason for the ambient noise in the cockpit and not scanning our EICAS system. Had the proper callout been made and the after takeoff checklist been executed properly this wouldn't have occurred. We had two opportunities to grab the gear handle and put it in the up position and did not. Personally I will no longer assume the gear handle has been put in the up position after I call for the after takeoff check. Synopsis CRJ200 First Officer reported a bird strike on takeoff on the Captain's windscreen. The Captain did not call positive rate and the First Officer did not call gear up. The gear was discovered to still be down at 15000 feet and was then retracted.
Time / Day Date : 201606 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8757 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Takeoff Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 19000 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 180 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 295 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1367176 Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience.Flight Crew. Total : 10000 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 200 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 200 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1366802
Events Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Person / Animal / Bird Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action Result. Flight Crew : Rejected Takeoff Result.Flight Crew : Returned To Gate Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Primary Problem : Environment - Non Weather Related Narrative: 1 At approximately 120 knots on takeoff at [a high elevation airport] we had a direct bird strike to the Captain's forward windscreen. We were about 3000 feet down the runway and had 9000 feet remaining and were 35 knots below VI. The impact was extremely loud and forceful so I rejected the takeoff. At approximately 100 knots with about 8000 feet of runway remaining I disengaged the auto-brakes to help avoid overheating the brakes. I used reverse thrust, spoilers and the remaining runway to slow the airplane. We exited the runway at the last high speed taxiway and brought the plane to a stop and did not set the brakes. We requested fire/rescue support and ran all appropriate checklists. Airport ops arrived quickly and notified us there was no fire or visible damage to the gear or tires, only some light smoke coming off the right gear. Fire rescue arrived in about 10 minutes and set up cooling fans on the gear. The brake temperatures initially climbed into the caution zone and then began to cool. After coordinating with Maintenance and waiting for the brakes to cool we were towed back to the gate. After a maintenance check Of the bird damage and brakes we were cleared and pressed on to our destination. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis 3757 flight crew reported rejecting the takeoff after experiencing a bird strike at approximately 100 kts.
Time / Day Date : 201606 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : TUL.TRACON State Reference : 0K Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 2500 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X Make Model Name : Small Aircraft, Low Wing, 2 Eng, Retractable Gear Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Flight Phase : Initial Climb Route In Use : Vectors Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Large Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Flight Phase : Descent Route In Use : None Airspace.CIass B : TUL Aircraft : 3 Reference : Z Make Model Name : Small Aircraft, High Wing, 1 Eng, Fixed Gear Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Phase : Cruise Person Reference : I Location Of Person. Facility : TUL.TRACON Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Departure Function.Air Traffic Control : Approach Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos 1 (mon) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1367101 Confusion Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Human Factors : Time Pressure Human Factors : Distraction Events
Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly.Deviation - Track / Heading : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Person / Animal / Bird Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Other / Unknown Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 Tulsa was in a south flow, and Radar South West was split off from Radar West. I was working Radar West. I had a mix of inbounds to TUL, outbounds from TUL, and a parachute jump aircraft operating over Skiatook airport. Aircraft X departed TUL VFR on a west heading. After I got him clear of an Aircraft Y descending for TUL, I gave Aircraft X on course to BVO. At about that time, Aircraft Z advised I minute prior to jump at Skiatook. I made an announcement on frequency, and gave Aircraft X a 330 heading to vector him to the west of Skiatook to avoid the parachute activity. I also told Aircraft Z about Aircraft X and advised him that he would pass to the west of Skiatook. A couple of minutes later, when Aircraft X was about 1-2 miles southwest of Skiatook, he advised he wanted to return to TUL. I turned him to a 100 heading in an attempt to keep him south of the Skiatook airport and away from any parachute jumpers. I gave a traffic advisory to Aircraft Z advising him of the aircraft's position and I told him he would be passing about a mile south of Skiatook. As Aircraft X was in the process of the turn he advised me that he was making a hard right turn to avoid a parachute. I let him make his turn and as he got away from Skiatook, I gave him a right base entry to 18R and switched him to tower. As Aircraft X exited the runway, he advised tower that it was the closest he has come to parachute jumping. This event was caused by me trying to get Aircraft X back to the airport as soon as possible. When he advised he wanted to return to TUL, I was assuming that he had an issue with the aircraft or that he needed to get back as soon as possible. In my attempt to get Aircraft X back to the airport quickly I turned him to a heading that was not southeast enough to keep him from going through the parachute activity. I think the local procedures involving parachute jumping are fine. This event was caused by me trying to get Aircraft X back to the airport as soon as possible. I had a couple other options that would have worked much better than turning him toward the parachute activity. Had I taken a moment to just think about the situation more I would have either taken Aircraft X north of Skiatook before turning him east or I would have given him a left turn to the south to get him away from the airport before turning him back toward TUL. Synopsis
Tulsa Radar Controller reported of an unsafe situation when he turned an aircraft too soon and did not avoid a parachute operation. Pilot reported after landing that it was, "the closest he has come to parachute jumping. "
Time / Day Date : 201606 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZZ.Airport State Reference : FO Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Widebody Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Taxi Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1366578 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Ground Personnel Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1366704 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Ground Personnel Events
Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Person / Animal / Bird Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : Taxi Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Process of push back and engine start, after engines were noted stable, Captain called for taxi and released the brakes and the aircraft began to roll as he ask the First Officer (FO) did you see a wave off on your side? (FO) immediately commanded STOP, STOP, and applied the brakes stopping the aircraft because of tug and personnel were still present under the aircraft and tug visible under the FO window. Tug then began to pull away and push back crew came out from under the aircraft and administered the wave off with no indication of injury or equipment damage. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis Air carrier flight crew reported a breakdown in communications with the ground pushback crew during the disconnect phase.
Time / Day Date : 201606 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : MAZ.Airport State Reference : PR Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : MAZ Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Small Transport, Low Wing, 2 Recip Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Takeoff Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1365638 Human Factors : Distraction Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1365639 Human Factors : Distraction Events Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Bird / Animal Detector. Person : Flight Crew
When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action Result.Aircraft : Aircraft Damaged Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airport Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Primary Problem : Environment - Non Weather Related Narrative: 1 Multiply bird strikes during takeoff from Mayaguez airport in San Juan Puerto Rico. Cut grass and maintain airfield condition. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis Air taxi flight crew reported a bird strike while taking off from MAZ. They indicated that the bird hazard at this airport is significant and needs to be mitigated.
