ASRS Database Report Set Controlled Flight Toward Terrain Report Set Description. .........A sampling of reports referencing inadvertent controlled flight towards terrain. Update Number.. .....32.0 Date of Update ........................ .November 30, 2017 Number of Records in Report Set....................... 50 Number ofNew Records in Report Set ...............50 Type of Records in Report Set.. .............For each update, new records received at ASRS will displace a like number of the oldest records in the Report Set, with the objective of providing the fifty most recent relevant ASRS Database records. Records within this Report Set have been screened to assure their relevance to the topic.
National Aeronautics and Space Administration Ames Research Center Moffett Field, CA 94035-1000 TH: 262-7 MEMORANDUM FOR: Recipients of Aviation Safety Reporting System Data SUBJECT: Data Derived from ASRS Reports The attached material is furnished pursuant to a request for data from the NASA Aviation Safety Reporting System (ASRS). Recipients of this material are reminded when evaluating these data of the following points. ASRS reports are submitted voluntarily. The existence in the ASRS database of reports concerning a specific topic cannot, therefore, be used to infer the prevalence of that problem within the National Airspace System. Information contained in reports submitted to ASRS may be amplified by further contact with the individual who submitted them, but the information provided by the reporter is not investigated further. Such information represents the perspective of the specific individual who is describing their experience and perception of a safety related event. After preliminary processing, all ASRS reports are de-identified and the identity of the individual who submitted the report is permanently eliminated. All ASRS report processing systems are designed to protect identifying information submitted by reporters; including names, company affiliations, and specific times of incident occurrence. After a report has been de-identified, any verification of information submitted to ASRS would be limited. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration and its ASRS current contractor, Booz Allen Hamilton, specifically disclaim any responsibility for any interpretation which may be made by others of any material or data furnished by NASA in response to queries of the ASRS database and related materials. Linda J. Connell, Director NASA Aviation Safety Reporting System
CAVEAT REGARDING USE OF ASRS DATA Certain caveats apply to the use of ASRS data. All ASRS reports are voluntarily submitted, and thus cannot be considered a measured random sample of the full population of like events. For example, we receive several thousand altitude deviation reports each year. This number may comprise over half of all the altitude deviations that occur, or it may be just a small fraction of total occurrences. Moreover, not all pilots, controllers, mechanics, flight attendants, dispatchers or other participants in the aviation system are equally aware of the ASRS or may be equally willing to report. Thus, the data can reflect reporting biases. These biases, which are not fully known or measurable, may influence ASRS information. A safety problem such as near midair collisions (NMACs) may appear to be more highly concentrated in area "A" than area "B" simply because the airmen who operate in area "A" are more aware of the ASRS program and more inclined to report should an NMAC occur. Any type of subjective, voluntary reporting will have these limitations related to quantitative statistical analysis. One thing that can be Imown from ASRS data is that the number of reports received concerning specific event types represents the lower measure of the true number of such events that are occurring. For example, if ASRS receives 881 reports of track deviations in 2010 (this number is purely hypothetical), then it can be known with some certainty that at least 881 such events have occurred in 2010. With these statistical limitations m mind, we believe that the real power of ASRS data is the qualitative information contained in report narratives. The pilots, controllers, and others who report tell us about aviation safety incidents and situations in detail — explaining what happened, and more importantly, why it happened. Using report narratives effectively requires an extra measure of study, but the knowledge derived is well worth the added effort.
Report Synopses
ACN:1485891 (lof50) Synopsis Air carrier First Officer reported responding to a GPWS terrain alert on a night visual approach to MFR. ACN: 1485019 (20f50) Synopsis EMB-175 First Officer reported climbing in response to a GPWS terrain warning on a night visual approach to SJC. ACN:1484797 (30f50) Synopsis Air carrier First Officer reported executing a go-around after receiving a GPWS terrain warning on a visual approach to MFR. ACN:1484443 (40f50) Synopsis ZSE Center Controller reported they allowed an aircraft to fly below the minimum IFR altitude. ACN: 1481818 (50f50) Synopsis GA pilot reported maneuvering to increase separation from traffic on approach to Runway 22 at PAH. He descended below the Terminal Area Altitude and received an obstacle warning on his portable GPS unit. ACN:1480561 (60f50) Synopsis Phenom 300 flight crew reported that a tree protrudes into the normal 3 degree glideslope for Runway 17 at THV. ACN: 1477252 (70f50) Synopsis Air carrier flight crew reported descending below the MIA Runway 26R RNAV Approach profile. The autopilot did not capture the vertical path and the crew did not detect it until they were low causing a GPWS warning. ACN: 1476679 (80f50)
Synopsis Air Carrier Captain reported a terrain warning on a night visual approach to CHO runway 03. ACN: 1476387 (90f50) Synopsis SNA Tower Controller reported using a Pre Departure Clearance function in error which caused the aircraft to be below the Minimum Vectoring Altitude. ACN: 1476384 (100f50) Synopsis SAN Tower Controller reported sending an aircraft around, which then caused the controller to stop a departure below the Minimum Vectoring Altitude to maintain separation between the two aircraft. ACN: 1476142 (11 of50) Synopsis Air Traffic Controller reported a departure on a SID that did not make contact in a timely manner and flew below the Minimum Vectoring Altitude. ACN: 1476115 (120f50) Synopsis G-550 First Officer reported receiving a low altitude alert from the tower while on visual approach. ACN: 1476000 (130f50) Synopsis Air carrier flight crew reported getting low while on a visual approach to MCO Runway 36L when VNAV was selected, but it did not engage. ACN: 1475497 (140f50) Synopsis A Controller reported they vectored an aircraft below the Minimum Vectoring Altitude. ACN: 1474785 (150f50) Synopsis Corporate jet Captain reported a Terrain Warning on visual approach to Runway 15 at ASE, but continued the approach to a landing.
ACN:1474548 (160f50) Synopsis 3737-700 First Officer reported crew received a GPWS warning on an ILS approach to BWI and encountered IMC conditions close to minimums, did not go around but landed. ACN: 1474515 (170f50) Synopsis Salt Lake Center Controller reported that an aircraft came close to descending below a Minimum IFR Altitude but did not. Reporter stated traffic was extremely high due to solar eclipse traffic. ACN: 1473958 (180f50) Synopsis Air Carrier Captain reported receiving a terrain warning on downwind to runway 14 at MFR at night, and responded with escape procedures then a normal landing. ACN:1473787 (190f50) Synopsis A320 First Officer reported receiving a GPWS alert on a night visual approach. ACN: 1473711 Synopsis Large Transport Captain reported difficulty locating the runway at MMQT and receiving a "Too Low, Terrain" warning. ACN•. 1473512 (21 Synopsis Piper twin pilot reported descending below an assigned altitude while on an approach to Burbank Airport. ACN•. 1473325 Synopsis The Captain of an Airbus 320 reported that they received a GPWS alert during final approach. ACN: 1473209 (230f50) Synopsis
HCF TRACON Supervisor reported a go around and a departure from parallel runways were cleared to conflicting headings with one of the aircraft assigned an altitude below the Minimum Vectoring Altitude. ACN•. 1473203 (24 of50) Synopsis C182 pilot and TRACON Controller reported a pilot deviation from the published missed approach and flight below Minimum Vectoring Altitude. ACN: 1472678 (250f50) Synopsis A319 Captain reported several ATC clearance changes on approach to MMMX led to descending below the glideslope after incorrectly setting the altitude on the autopilot. ACN: 1472504 (260f50) Synopsis Air Traffic Controller reported descending an aircraft to an altitude below the Minimum Vectoring Altitude. ACN: 1472485 (270f50) Synopsis BHM Approach Controller reported issuing a clearance altitude below the Minimum Vectoring Altitude. ACN: 1472224 (28#50) Synopsis Air carrier First Officer reported that they chose to utilize visual cues to crosscheck the LNAV/VNAV information, as a result they received an obstacle alert and a low altitude alert. ACN: 1472184 Synopsis A Departure Controller received a departing aircraft on a heading which placed the aircraft below the Minimum Vectoring Altitude. ACN•. 1471431 (300f50) Synopsis
3777 flight crew reported descending to altitude assigned by ATC, which was an error and below the Minimum Vectoring Altitude. ATC Caught the error and issued crew a higher altitude. ACN•. 1471331 (310f50) Synopsis A320 flight crew reported a terrain warning during a day visual approach to Runway 20R at SNA and continued the approach to landing while the terrain warning quickly silenced. ACN: 1471320 (320f50) Synopsis A320 flight crew experienced a GPWS terrain warning descending to 2000 feet 5 NM south of TOLOC during a night visual approach to PDX. ACN: 1471219(330f50) Synopsis A DOI TRACON Controller misidentified aircraft with similar sounding call signs and issued a descent and heading to an aircraft below the Minimum Vectoring Altitude and into confliction with departing traffic. ACN: 1471007(340f50) Synopsis Air Carrier Captain reported that the First Officer failed to add power while initiating a turn onto final resulting in a EGPWS warning. ACN: 1470856 (350f50) Synopsis Air carrier flight crew reported receiving what was suspected to be an erroneous aural terrain warning while intercepting the Runway 17 localizer at MHT. ACN: 1470488 (360f50) Synopsis BJC Local Controller reported an aircraft on approach descended below the glideslope and triggered a low altitude alert. ACN•. 1470468 (370f50) Synopsis BOI TRACON Controller reported insufficient spacing caused an aircraft to be vectored off the RNAV Approach into a higher MVA.
ACN:1470162 (38 of50) Synopsis BOI T RACON Controller reported a missed read back which almost led to an aircraft descending below the Minimum Vectoring Altitude. ACN: 1470109 (390f50) Synopsis Light twin pilot reported failing to maintain required altitude while on approach to OBU resulting in an altitude alert from ATC. ACN: 1469592 (400f50) Synopsis A Center Controller observed a diverting aircraft with an alternator problem descend without a clearance to an altitude below the Minimum IFR Altitude. ACN: 1468243 (41 of50) Synopsis NCT TRACON Controller reported that an aircraft was inadvertently held at 3000 feet in a 4100 foot MVA area. ACN: 1467244 (42 of50) Synopsis C150 banner tow pilot reported operating with a banner that was much too large for the aircraft. ACN•. 1467211 (430f50) Synopsis General aviation pilot reported operating below cloud minimum clearances enroute to Oshkosh Air Venture after breaking out from a nearby IFR approach. ACN•. 1466556 (440f50) Synopsis DEN Tower Controller observed an aircraft overshoot the final approach course and had to issue parallel runway traffic go-around instructions. ACN: 1466548 (450f50) Synopsis
ALO TRACON Controller reported a temporary loss of contact with an aircraft which descended on its own to an altitude below the Minimum Vectoring Altitude. ACN: 1466524 (460f50) Synopsis HCF Controller reported an airborne conflict between an IFR departure and a VFR aircraft. ACN•. 1465955 (470f50) Synopsis SoCal TRACON Controller reported a bad read back from a pilot which caused an instantaneous airspace violation. ACN•. 1465288 (480f50) Synopsis All TRACON Controller reported vectoring an aircraft below the Minimum Vectoring Altitude. ACN: 1465270 (490f50) Synopsis Seattle Center Controllers reported an aircraft descended below the cleared altitude as well as the Minimum IFR Altitude. ACN: 1465182 (500f50) Synopsis Air carrier Captain reported an excursion from cleared altitude resulting in a low altitude warning. The crew corrected the deviation and landed without incident.
Report Narratives
Time / Day Date : 201710 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : MFR.Airport State Reference : OR Altitude.MSL.SingIe Value : 8200 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZSE Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use.VOR / VORTAC : OED Flight Phase : Initial Approach Airspace.CIass E : ZSE Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1485891 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Overshoot Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Crossing Restriction Not Met Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Unstabilized Approach Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Detector.Automation : Aircraft Terrain Warning When Detected : In-flight
Result.Flight Crew Result.FIight Crew Result.Flight Crew Result.FIight Crew Assessments : Took Evasive Action : Returned To Clearance : FLC complied w / Automation / Advisory : Became Reoriented Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 On our approach into MFR we had the field in sight and were cleared a visual approach. The Captain was pilot flying and used the VOR DME-C as a reference for the visual approach. We crossed BRKET at 10,000 ft and then began a descent down to the field. We had discussed this approach in the approach brief and how it can keep you high so as we descended, [the Captain] asked for flaps 8 and 20 and then gear down to slow the plane down for a better descent. We were a few miles short of SERTE when we heard the EGPWS "terrain pull up, pull up" alert and we immediately [executed] the escape procedure of disconnecting the autopilot, max thrust and leveling off the descent. The alert went away and we then continued the approach and landed on runway 32. I noticed we were around 8,200 ft as we leveled off which was a few hundred feet below the published altitude of 8,500 ft on the approach at SERTE. As mentioned above, we had the field in sight and were cleared a visual approach however [the Captain] descended too aggressively which caused the warning. The cause was too steep of a descent on our approach which led to the "terrain pull up" alert. Follow the published altitudes on an approach when using it as a reference in mountainous terrain to avoid alerts like we encountered. Even though we had the field in sight, the descent was still too aggressive and we should have followed the published altitudes on the approach since it was night time with all the surrounding terrain. Synopsis Air carrier First Officer reported responding to a GPWS terrain alert on a night visual approach to MFR.
Time / Day Date : 201709 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : SJC.Airport State Reference : CA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 3800 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : NCT Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : EMB ERJ 170/175 ER/LR Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.Class C : SJC Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1485019 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Detector.Automation : Aircraft Terrain Warning When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.Flight Crew : FLC complied w / Automation / Advisory Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 We were descending into SJC, I was PM and the Captain was PF. We were coming from the north and were placed on a southeasterly heading at 5100 ft MSL we were cleared for a visual approach into 30L. The Captain set 2800 ft into the altitude pre-select in preparation for the final approach fix and set the descent mode to FLCH. As we began our descent from 5100 ft I told the Captain "all we have to worry about is the big hill up ahead". I did not hear a verbal response from the Captain, but several seconds after I made my statement he started turning to the east towards the airport and lowering terrain. As we descended through 4000 ft my terrain page started to change from green to yellow indications, seconds later we received a terrain caution advisory. I parroted the advisory and said "terrain". The Captain continued the turn towards the airport and lowering terrain while attempting to adjust the descent rate. Moments later at around 3800 ft MSL, we received a terrain GPWS advisory message. The Captain disconnected the auto pilot and began a climb and I called out his airspeed. We climbed to an altitude of roughly 4100 ft MSL and the GPWS advisory was canceled. After the advisory was canceled we were on a base leg for the airport and continued in and made an uneventful landing. The Captain selected FLCH for the descent mode and the result was a rate of descent that possibly triggered the GPWS. I should have verified that the Captain was aware of the terrain ahead of us and was accounting for it in his descent planning. Synopsis EMB-175 First Officer reported climbing in response to a GPWS terrain warning on a night visual approach to SJC.
Time / Day Date : 201709 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : MFR.Airport State Reference : OR Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 4000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : EUG Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Large Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.Class E : EUG Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 1094 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1484797 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Detector.Automation : Aircraft Terrain Warning When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.Flight Crew : Executed Go Around / Missed Approach Result.FIight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance
Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 On Leg 3 of Day I out of 3, the Capt (PF) and I (PM) were flying into MFR. Flight was uneventful until we descended to 12000 ft and approached the MFR valley. We were about 20 miles south of the airport and ATC asked if airport was in sight. This was my first mistake because I answered her immediately without conferring with the Captain. Neither one of us were familiar with the area even though we spent most of cruise analyzing the terrain around the airport and coming up with the plan to request Rwy 14. ATC then cleared us visual Rwy 14. The Capt reminded me to ask for his concurrence in the future. Our second mistake was to not ask for radar vectors after "Cleared the visual to Rwy 14" was given. ATC cleared us down to 6000 ft I believe and gave us clearance for right base to Rwy 14. We had the approach set to ILS 14 and confirmed all the altitudes. This situation of 12000 ft in a bowl of hilly terrain and being cleared the visual at night really set us up for failure. At this point we are flying north on downwind managing to make it down to 6000 ft and then start descending to 4700 ft because that was the altitude at AMASE at 11.8 DME and that was where the PF was planning on turning right base. Laterally we were most likely well wide of a normal downwind spacing. As we started getting abeam OSSAJ we started seeing green terrain dots on our displays. This was my first warning that those green dots do not represent clear of terrain and that we would need to turn very soon. The PF asked me to put in 3800 ft, the altitude at OSSAJ, because we were going to turn before AMASE. We were descending to about 4000 ft at this point and got our first "Terrain." He started to turn more aggressively toward right base and then we got 2 yellow patches on our display about the 11:30 position followed by a "Terrain Terrain." At this point we executed a go-around as we turned toward the runway safe of terrain. We notified ATC of the go-around and they asked what the reason was. We asked them for vectors for RWY 14 ILS and were handed off to approach. As Approach was vectoring us to Rwy 14 we asked what the Min Safe Altitude was for that area in which ATC replied it was 5300 ft. We understand that accepting a visual approach relieves ATC of responsibility, what we are puzzled at is they did not say a word to us as we descended to 4000 ft on a downwind leg. The second approach and landing were uneventful. Synopsis Air carrier First Officer reported executing a go-around after receiving a GPWS terrain warning on a visual approach to MFR.
Time / Day Date : 201709 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZSE.ARTCC State Reference : WA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 8000 Environment Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZSE Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Small Aircraft, High Wing, 1 Eng, Fixed Gear Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Direct Airspace.CIass E : ZSE Person Reference : I Location Of Person.FaciIity : ZSE.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Enroute Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control.Time Certified In Pos 1 (yrs) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1484443 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Confusion Communication Breakdown.PartyI : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Chart Or Publication Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I had taken over the position about 10 minutes prior and due to the language used during the relief briefing I was led to believe the aircraft was filed on an airway with GPS altitudes allowing for 8000 feet to transit right next to a 9000 foot Minimum IFR Altitude. I saw the aircraft deviating rather far to the south so I turned him to the north even though I thought he was still within the confines of the airway. Shortly thereafter I realized he was actually just filed point to point and was now just inside the 9000 foot MIA at 8000 feet. I then climbed him to 9000 feet. I just need to use more vigilance when taking over a position and make sure I'm clear what is being communicated from the previous controller. Synopsis ZSE Center Controller reported they allowed an aircraft to fly below the minimum IFR altitude.
Time / Day Date : 201709 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : PAH.Airport State Reference : KY Relative Position.Angle.Radial : 045 Relative Position. Distance. Nautical Miles : 5 Altitude.MSL.SingIe Value : 2000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.VisibiIity : 10 Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : PAH Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Small Aircraft, Low Wing, 1 Eng, Retractable Gear Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.Class D : PAH Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory. Tower : PAH Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Small Aircraft, High Wing, I Eng, Fixed Gear Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Initial Approach Airspace.Class D : PAH Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine
Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 2828 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 24 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 2137 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1481818 Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Detector.Automation : Aircraft TA Miss Distance.Horizontal : 2500 Miss Distance.Vertical : 500 Were Passengers Involved In Event : N When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 About midway through an IFR trip, I was at 4000 feet in visual conditions as I approached my refueling stop, PAH, from the southeast. At my request, the Memphis Center controller cleared me direct to JIPGO (the initial approach fix for the RNAV (GPS) Approach to RWY 32) and instructed me to enter a hold there as published to the southeast. As I completed my second turn in the hold, Center said he was working a jet inbound to PAH about 50 NM to the northwest and a switch to RWY 22 might help a little bit but not much. I then asked Center if it would help if I cancelled IFR and went VFR. He said it would, cancelled my IFR clearance and approved a frequency change to PAH Tower. I switched to Tower, who requested my location and told me to report a two mile final for RWY 32. Passing JIPGO, I could clearly see PAH about 12 nm to the northwest. Assuming I would be cleared to land on RWY 22, I disengaged my autopilot, began a gradual descent to 2000 feet and continued inbound. About then, the jet told Tower he was entering a six mile right base for RWY 22. When Tower requested my position and altitude. I reported that I was approaching VUCUC at about 2000 feet. Given the traffic situation, I offered to switch to RWY 22 behind the jet. Tower approved the RWY change and asked me to advise when I had the jet in sight and could follow him to RWY 22. I acknowledged those instructions and turned to the north. As I continued northbound, Tower asked if I had the jet in sight. I advised that the jet was not yet in sight and that I was turning to the northeast to enter a left downwind for RWY 22. Tower then said the jet had turned about a five mile final and confirmed he was over the Ohio River. As I continued downwind for RWY 22, a GA aircraft advised Tower they were five miles to the northeast inbound for landing. Tower acknowledged the aircraft's transmission and told them that they were number three behind our aircraft. The aircraft then advised that he had the jet in sight and was going to enter a left 360.
At that point, my Garmin Aera 660 portable GPS sounded a "Caution - Obstacle" alert, presumably for the 1325 foot obstacle located about 5 nm east of PAH. I then advised Tower I still had not made visual contact with the jet. Tower said the jet was on a three mile final for RWY 22. I entered a left base for RWY 22 at about 2000 feet and observed the GA aircraft on my Skywatch TCAD. He appeared to be maneuvering about two or three miles to the north. As I continued on the left base, I told Tower I had the GA aircraft in sight, about 500 feet below me. Tower cleared me to land on RWY 22 and advised the GA aircraft I had him in sight. The GA aircraft said he could not see me and requested my position. I replied that I was just about abeam his location and Off his left wing. At that point, my TCAD issued an aural "Traffic, Traffic!" alert and my Garmin GMX 200 multifunction display switched from normal map view to its traffic alert format. I deviated about 10 degrees to my left to increase my separation from the other aircraft. The GA aircraft again asked for my location, and I replied that I was abeam their aircraft and about 500 feet above them. I assume their view was blocked by their high wing configuration. The GA aircraft then told Tower they wanted to deviate to the east. At that point, I was approaching the extended centerline of RWY 22, and I advised Tower I was turning final. Tower cleared me to land on RWY 22, and advised he had both my aircraft and the GA aircraft in sight. The GA aircraft also confirmed that he had me in sight. The rest of our approach and landing were uneventful. As soon as Tower authorized my change to RWY 22, I should have: 1. Reengaged my autopilot and climbed back up to the 3000 foot Terminal Arrival Area/ Terminal Area Altitude (TAA) depicted on the approach plates for the RNAV (GPS) approaches to RWYs 22 and 32. 2. Highlighted on the approach plate the 1325 foot obstacle about five nm east of PAH. 3. Loaded the RNAV (GPS) RWY 22 approach in my Garmin CNX-80 GPS WAAS mapcom (which would automatically load it on my MFD). 4. Maintained an altitude sufficient for obstacle clearance until I began my base-to-final turn. Synopsis GA pilot reported maneuvering to increase separation from traffic on approach to Runway 22 at PAH. He descended below the Terminal Area Altitude and received an obstacle warning on his portable GPS unit.
Time / Day Date : 201709 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : THV. Airport State Reference : PA Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : THV Aircraft Operator : Fractional Make Model Name : EMB-505 / Phenom 300 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Final Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.CIass E : THV Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Fractional Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1480561 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Fractional Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1480559 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events
Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airport Contributing Factors / Situations : Chart Or Publication Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Ambiguous Narrative: 1 I was the PIC, and the Pilot Monitoring. The SIC was flying a briefed visual approach backed up with a RNAV (GPS) Rwy 17 approach which has a 3 degree Glidepath. Inside of a mile from the end of Runway 17, the SIC verbalized and adjusted aircraft pitch and rate of descent because a tree appeared to be close off the right nose. There were no Terrain, Obstacle, or Descent Rate warnings. A normal landing was made over a blast fence that was not noted on the 10-9 page. It was Day VFR when we flew this approach. If we had continued the approach as depicted, the tree on short final would have been very close to the 3 degree glidepath. This approach (T HV 12-1) was dated 18 Jul 14, and it's possible this tree had grown in the past 3 years. The PAPI is shown on the 10-9 page to be 4.5 degrees, quite a bit different than 3.0 degrees on the RNAV (GPS) 17 approach. Flying the PAPI angle at 120 knots would result in a descent rate of close to 1000 fpm. In addition, the blast fence was not mentioned on NOTAMS or on the 10-9 page. The 10-9 page also does not show the tree on short final. The 12-1 page for the RNAV (GPS) 17 does mention in note 3, that landing on Rwy 17 at night is not authorized. I feel that this approach is also not safe in IFR conditions. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis Phenom 300 flight crew reported that a tree protrudes into the normal 3 degree glideslope for Runway 17 at THV.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : MIA.Airport State Reference : FL Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 1300 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility : Rain Weather Elements / Visibility : Thunderstorm Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : MIA Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Widebody Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Cargo / Freight Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Nav In Use : GPS Flight Phase : Final Approach Route In Use.Other Airspace.CIass B : MIA Component Aircraft Component : Autoflight System Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Improperly Operated Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.FIight Crew : Captain Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1477252 Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Situational Awareness Person : 2
Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1477254 Events Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Excursion From Assigned Altitude Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Detector.Automation : Aircraft Terrain Warning Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Returned To Clearance Result.Flight Crew : Became Reoriented Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Uneventful descent into Miami while avoiding thunderstorms. Vectors to intercept final course for RNAV/GPS Rwy 26R. We kept the speed up to get on the ground before a series of thunderstorms got to the airport and received shortened vectors to final inside the NAYIB fix on the approach. On final and after confirming FMS speed, Nav, and profile MDA, while consulting with each other about rain showers close to the airport, we noticed that the airplane was descending below the profile glidepath and I disconnected the Autopilot to arrest the descent. We descended to 1300, below the minimum 1500 ft for that portion of the approach before the Final Approach Fix ZARER. We immediately started a correction back to published altitude. At that point we received a yellow GROUND PROXIMITY alert for several buildings 2 to 3 miles in front and on both sides of the approach course. After confirming we were well clear of all obstacles and still in a safe position for landing we opted to visually continue the approach and landing. Distraction with weather during the approach. Clarify before the approach the duties (i.e. who will be looking at the radar and who will be closely monitoring the instruments). Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis Air carrier flight crew reported descending below the MIA Runway 26R RNAV Approach profile. The autopilot did not capture the vertical path and the crew did not detect it until they were low causing a GPWS warning.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : CHO.Airport State Reference : VA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 2750 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : PCT Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.Class E : CHO Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Check Pilot Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 5600 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1476679 Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Detector.Automation : Aircraft Terrain Warning When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors
Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 During the approach into CHO RWY 03 ATC cleared us to 3000 ft. Once abeam the airport ATC cleared us for the visual and we turned towards the FAP and started the descent to 2600 ft which was the FAP ALT. Pattern alt was 2200 ft. We could not see any terrain that would cause an issue to our approach and we started down to 2600 ft. Between 2700 and 2800 ft we got an EGPWS terrain terrain pull up. We disconnected the auto pilot and set max thrust and started a climb. We notified ATC and once we were sure we were clear the terrain we continued back to the approach course at a higher altitude and landed with no further incident. ATC is bringing us down to 3000 ft and is bringing us too close to a ridge that is 1800 ft high. With no wind correction it is easy to drift over the ridge and not realize it. ATC is then clearing us for a visual approach from a wide left downwind and tower is also requesting to keep the pattern tight. With it being dark out we could not see any terrain that would be a factor so we accepted it not knowing we were directly over the ridge. ATC should not be clearing visual approaches from the east or bringing us down that low for a vectoring altitude. Even if we were to have stayed at 3000 ft, the MSA was 4900 ft, this would have caused a TOO LOW GEAR warning due to the proximity of the ridge. ATC should either keep us higher and bring us out away from the ridge before clearing us for a visual or the company needs to send out alerts to the crews about this airport since it is surrounded by terrain close to the airport. Synopsis Air Carrier Captain reported a terrain warning on a night visual approach to CHO runway 03.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : SNA.Tower State Reference : CA Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 2000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : SNA Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 3737 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Initial Climb Airspace.CIass C : SNA Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Facility : SNA.Tower Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Flight Data / Clearance Delivery Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) : 2 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1476387 Human Factors : Human-Machine Interface Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : ATC Equipment / Nav Facility / Buildings Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Aircraft X, a PDC clearance aircraft was given "climb via the SID except maintain 2000" instead of just "Climb via the SID" on the drop down menu at the CD position. When Aircraft X departed, the aircraft was below the minimum vectoring altitude. This was a fat finger mistake. Although, that option is no longer used anymore so it should have not
been there at all. Remove the climb via the SID except maintain 2000 from the drop down menu on the clearance delivery position. Synopsis SNA Tower Controller reported using a Pre Departure Clearance function in error which caused the aircraft to be below the Minimum Vectoring Altitude.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : SAN.Airport State Reference : CA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 2500 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : SAN Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 3737 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Final Approach Airspace.CIass B : SAN Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory. Tower : SAN Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B737 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Climb Route In Use.SID : PARDZI Airspace.CIass B : SAN Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Facility : SAN. Tower Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Local Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1476384 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Troubleshooting Human Factors : Distraction Events
Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly.Deviation - Track / Heading : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result. Flight Crew : Returned To Clearance Result.Flight Crew : Executed Go Around / Missed Approach Result.Air Traffic Control : Separated Traffic Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 Aircraft X was on a high 2 mile to a mile and a half final. Aircraft X broke out of the clouds at 1700 ft. At that point I realized that Aircraft X was not going to make the descent and sent Aircraft X around, and I issued Aircraft X a 275 heading and to climb to 2500 feet. Prior to me issuing the go around, Aircraft Y was on departure roll and on a diverging course (PADRZ departure). In my opinion the distance between Aircraft X and Aircraft Y was no factor for each other. As Aircraft X started their climb, Aircraft Y increased their speed and they over took Aircraft X. When I noticed the overtake, I had Aircraft Y stop their climb at 1500 feet to provided positive separation until Aircraft Y was established on their SID and diverging. Once divergence was established, I instructed Aircraft Y to continue their climb to 15000 and switched both aircraft to departure control. By me stopping the climb of Aircraft Y at 1500 feet, Aircraft Y was below the MVA for the area he was in which is 1900ft. When I first noticed Aircraft X was not going to make the approach, I should of turned Aircraft X to a 250 heading coordinated with the adjacent airport (NZY) and established diverging course further out and much sooner. Synopsis SAN Tower Controller reported sending an aircraft around, which then caused the controller to stop a departure below the Minimum Vectoring Altitude to maintain separation between the two aircraft.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 0001-0600 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : SCT.TRACON State Reference : CA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 3000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : SCT Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Large Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Climb Route In Use.SID : PIGGN Airspace.CIass C : SNA Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Facility : SCT.TRACON Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Departure Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control.Time Certified In Pos 1 (yrs) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1476142 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Other / Unknown Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments : 4.0
Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Chart Or Publication Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 I was working pacific when Air Carrier X called me on the departure opposite direction (we were South, he departed North). We've complained about this procedure and this is the third time they've entered below the Minimum Vectoring Altitude (MVA) that our crew knows about. Air Carrier X was entering a 3500 foot MVA level at 3000 feet because we did not talk to him in time. If it was 1 minute later Air Carrier X would have hit a 5200 foot MVA, followed by 5800, 7800 foot MVA. Change the procedure. Opposite direction departure should not be cleared well below the mountains when they turn into the mountain within a matter of minutes. Change the procedure. Opposite direction departure should not be cleared well below the mountains when they turn into the mountain within a matter of minutes. Synopsis Air Traffic Controller reported a departure on a SID that did not make contact in a timely manner and flew below the Minimum Vectoring Altitude.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Relative Position. Distance. Nautical Miles : Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 1000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Corporate 5 Make Model Name : Gulfstream V / G500 / G550 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Final Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.CIass D : ZZZ Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Corporate Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1476115 Events Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Excursion From Assigned Altitude Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Detector.Automation : Aircraft Other Automation Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 On a visual approach to runway 6, approach called to ask the tower to alert us to a low altitude alert. We were in visual conditions approaching the airport Off runway centerline. Staying on an IFR approach path would prevent a low altitude condition when in visual conditions. Synopsis G-550 First Officer reported receiving a low altitude alert from the tower while on visual approach.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : MCO.Airport State Reference : FL Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 1600 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : MCO Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Large Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Final Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.CIass B : MCO Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accesslon Number : 1476000 Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Fatigue : Human-Machine Interface Human Factors Situational Awareness Human Factors : Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying
Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1475997 Human Factors : Confusion Events Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Unstabilized Approach Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Detector.Automation : Air Traffic Control Detector. Person : Flight Crew Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Returned To Clearance Result.Flight Crew : FLC complied w / Automation / Advisory Result.Flight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 We were assigned the PIGLT Four RNAV Arrival to land Runway 36L. 36L only has an RNAV approach so that's what I set up for even though the conditions were VFR. On the downwind leg of the PIGLT arrival we were given clearance to descend to 1600 ft and turn to a heading for an intercept to the final approach course 36L. When we reported the runway in sight we were cleared for the visual 36L. I set the VNAV for the RNAV approach and shortly after the captain noted that it might've just been easier to go direct to BERDY (the outer fix). I checked to make sure that the course line was going to intercept the extended centerline which it did. As we rolled onto final the captain asked "why are we still descending?" At that point I realize that even though I had selected VNAV it had not engaged. I disconnected the autopilot, applied power, and initiated a climb. While I was in the process of this procedure the tower announced an altitude alert for us. When we leveled off, due to the fact that we were in VFR conditions, no other traffic around, and in clear view Of the runway I elected to continue the approach visually. We continue to configure the aircraft for landing but before I could call for flaps 30 (final flap configuration) the aircraft announced 1000 feet. At that point, we were on the extended centerline, on the visual glidepath, configured, and on airspeed. I elected to continue the approach and made a normal landing. At the point of this event we were on day four of a four-day trip. All of our sign ins had been late with long overnights. However, the night before this event we were scheduled to have a 10:35 overnight which got reduced to 10 hours as we were running late. We were three hours out of Home Base Time, getting up early in the morning. In hindsight, and after a good night's sleep, I can't believe that I didn't execute a go around at the first sign of trouble. Obviously, I was more fatigued than I realized at the time. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.]
Synopsis Air carrier flight crew reported getting low while on a visual approach to MCO Runway 36L when VNAV was selected, but it did not engage.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : EUG.TRACON State Reference : OR Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 8500 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : EUG Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : RV-7 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Climb Route In Use : Direct Airspace.CIass E : EUG Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Facility : ZOA.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Enroute Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1475497 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Training / Qualification Human Factors : Confusion Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFTT / CFIT Detector. Person : Flight Crew Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Chart Or Publication Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors
Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Airspace Structure Narrative: 1 The aircraft was joining an airway and the Minimum Enroute Altitude (MEA) was 10000 feet. The aircraft was at 7000 feet on a different airway before this point. He had to ask me for a climb and then that is when I noticed the MEA was higher. I climbed him and he was still above the MVA so safe for terrain. Then my attention was elsewhere and his climb rate had slowed he was in the 8700 foot MVA at 8800 feet but I estimate he did enter that MVA below 8700 feet based on climb rate. I should have put aircraft on a vector to remain within the 6400 foot MVA until I was sure they could meet the 8700 foot MVA and then vector to rejoin the airway. Synopsis A Controller reported they vectored an aircraft below the Minimum Vectoring Altitude.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ASE.Airport State Reference : CO Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 9100 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Dusk Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : ASE Aircraft Operator : Fractional Make Model Name : Medium Large Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Approach Airspace.CIass D : ASE Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Fractional Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1474785 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Fatigue Events Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Unstabilized Approach Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Detector.Automation : Aircraft Terrain Warning When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Became Reoriented Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 It seemed like a long day, but by simply looking at it, nothing would indicate the issues/challenges we had faced. Lots Of little things during the day such as a reposition in ZZZ, a 10 passenger leg with lots of luggage, non-towered operations, having to do a last minute MEL on the database and Jeppesen charts, a delayed receipt of Flight Release out of ZZZI, early passengers with a last minute passenger count change resulting in another release to be generated (I called dispatch 5 times in ZZZI alone). No item was out of the normal or unusual alone but the combination of all factors had the entire crew a little worn out even before the ZZZI-ASE leg started. The flight to ASE was uneventful, the weather was good and winds were calm at ASE enroute. I was the PM in the left seat and the SIC was flying from the right seat. We briefed the Roaring Fork Visual and at the SICs request we loaded the LOC DME-E in the box although I mentioned that it would be of minimal value as we would not be on the lateral or vertical portion of the approach. The SIC indicated that he had not been to ASE in some time. I, on the other hand, was familiar and comfortable going in there especially under the conditions of the given day. The ASE ATIS was calling the sky clear but there were surrounding high clouds that we descended through on the arrival. We were direct DBL, when we exited the clouds at around FL180 descending to 17,000 ft approximately 15 miles southeast of the VOR and I saw the airport (we were on a 9,000 ft AGL high downwind leg). We were handed over to Aspen Approach, I called the airport insight and was planning for the Roaring Fork Visual. We were then cleared to 15,000 ft and were informed that the winds had shifted and now exceeded the 10 knot limitation for landing (the winds were out of the north gusting to 18). We requested a hold and were given a hold on DBL 343 radial with 7 mile legs and instructed to climb back to 16,000 feet. Suddenly, things were getting busy as I entered the hold in the FMS only miles from the VOR. The airspeed at this point was approximately 200 knots planning for the hold. My mind was also going through our options and preparing for what was going to happen next. How long to hold before diverting? Where would the passengers want to go? How much fuel did we have? Will the winds die down as the sun sets? When is sunset? Etc. As we approached the hold, the controller asked if we could accept "instantaneous winds." I responded in the affirmative, but based on my past experiences I remained a little weary of this sudden change when winds became 330 at 9 knots. Based on this new information, the controller gave us a base turn and descent to 14,000 ft. He again queried if we still had the field and cleared us for the visual to Runway 15. The SIC could not see the airport from the right seat as it was behind us and off the left wing. I was talking him through the turn and instructed him that we were high and fast and needed to get down both in terms of altitude and airspeed and configuration (we were still doing around 200 knots at 15,000 ft). In the base turn we contacted the tower and were given the winds again and cleared to land (the airport was not busy and the frequency was quiet). As we continued the base turn toward the airport, the SIC instructed me to "clean up the box" as the holding pattern and LOC-E were still displaying on the MFD/PFD. I was hesitant to do so and was more concerned about him getting the airport in sight and flying the visual. There was some confusion initially as to if/when he had the field in sight. Finally, he called the airport in sight and again implored me to "clean up the FMS". Again, to me, this was of no value as it provided no additional situational awareness nor vertical guidance. At some point I did tell him "we are high, keep coming down." I assumed he had the airport in sight and would adjust accordingly. The tower continued to keep us updated on the "instantaneous
winds" as we continued to descend, configure and slow. It had suddenly become very busy. My attention was also drawn to our 9 knot tailwind and I became focused on attempting to update the FMS and obtain a new a landing distance, as well preforming a Landing Performance Assessment. I was heads down programming the FMS and trying to "clean up the box" when I heard "Caution Terrain." When I looked up we were now low. I told him to level off, which he was in the process of doing when the first of several "Terrain Pull-Up" calls started. Despite being familiar with both the FOM (Flight Operations Manual) and AOM (Aircraft Operations Manual), rather than call for a go-around and initiating an escape procedure, I told the SIC to "climb" and was focused on getting back on a normal glide path in an attempt to "salvage" the approach. It may seem odd to those reading this in hindsight, but I was actually surprised we got the warning, as the airplane didn't seem that close to the hills. The air was smooth, the visibility good, and to me the flight path was stable. We were over the highway, in the valley. If I had to guess, we were approximately 9,100 ft and were 4-5 miles from the runway. I was never nervous, and never felt that the safety of the flight was in jeopardy. If anything, I was frustrated and bewildered that on a visual approach the airplane was allowed to descend to such a low altitude. We continued down the valley and joined the final of Runway 15, intercepted the PAPI and continued to configure and ran the Before Landing checklist. To add to the excitement, the auto- throttles either quit or got turned off, so we endured the continuous "auto-throttle" call for the remaining 3 miles. The SIC was focused on flying and never cancelled the warning (the cancel button is on top of the thrust levers and I could not cancel them with his hands now covering them). The approach at this point was normal. At one time the airspeed dipped slightly below reference, but was corrected in a timely matter. As we approached short final, the "auto-throttle" call was replaced by a "Not a Runway" call, as somehow the new Revision 5 software determined that we were not aligned with the runway. Per the Revision 5 guidance material, we determined that we were and landed uneventfully but it was quite a hectic few minutes. In the time that has passed since this event I have been reflecting a great deal on how I allowed this to happen and how to prevent similar situations going forward. As I painfully replay the events described above, several things come to mind. The most striking one is [the] obvious response (or lack thereof) to the terrain warning. I know what the answer is, however, on this given day, I as the PIC elected to continue the approach because the power of getting the "mission accomplished" and "making it work" overrode the SOPs and AOM. There were threats, the threats were real, the mountains were rock...but the crew at the time didn't perceive the threats as such and "made it work." However bad that decision was, the reality is I should have never have let the situation get to that point. At the first sign of confusion or ambiguity as to the location of the airport by the SIC, I should have bailed on the approach while at altitude. Also in hindsight, because I had a much better view and was more familiar, I should have taken the controls at least until a point where a normal landing could be made. In the end, I let my familiarity and confidence with the Roaring Forks Visual into ASE turn into a sense of complacency which led the airplane, crew and passengers into an undesired aircraft state. Synopsis Corporate jet Captain reported a Terrain Warning on visual approach to Runway 15 at ASE, but continued the approach to a landing.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : BWI.Tower State Reference : MD Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 1000 Environment Flight Conditions : Mixed Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility Light : Dawn Ceiling.SingIe Value : 200 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : BWI Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8737-700 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Approach Airspace.CIass B : BWI Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1474548 Human Factors : Fatigue Events Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Unstabilized Approach Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Approaching BWI we were being vectored for the visual 33L. We were left high on the arrival due to a short flight. We were assigned the RAAVN 6 THHMP transition, but we were limited to 16,000 ft due to an MEL for the number 2 IDG (Integrated Drive Generator) so the altitudes were not flown as assigned on the arrival. Weather was dawn with 7SM visibility and some scattered clouds. We were expecting the visual and on a heading direct GRAFE, the FAF. Approximately one to two miles from GRAFE, ATC asked if we would prefer the ILS. We still didn't have the airport in sight so we elected to take the ILS. We briefed it only as a backup to the visual so everything was setup except for minimums. The PF (Pilot Flying) was busy trying to slow when we were cleared immediately for the ILS. Our course had us headed to GRAFE at approximately 2000 ft. The aircraft intercepted the Localizer over GRAFE and the PF was busy trying to configure and slow. I had stated the aircraft was not descending yet upon crossing and we were at 2000 ft; all the while in VMC conditions but with the airport not in sight. The VNAV showed us about 500 ft high on the path but correcting. I missed the 1000 ft call due to the rushed conditions but caught up and stated one at 800 ft. The PF was still correcting on the glideslope. We had a Pull Up (I think, it was a GPWS warning but I could be wrong on the exact verbal warning) as the PF was still correcting. We went IMC approximately 400 ft AGL and I called approaching minimums at 100 ft above. I had to reference the Approach plate as we didn't have the minimums set. PF had the correct responses and I called minimums and we landed uneventfully although slightly above REF speed. ATC asked us if the shallow layer was an issue when landing and we stated it was at minimums. The first we were told of any cloud layers. As the PM (Pilot Monitoring), I didn't do my duties when I stayed quiet about a go-around. Everything happened so fast and I had no doubt the PF wouldn't get it stabilized, but it was too late in the approach when it did stabilize. Upon the GPWS call an immediate go-around is required and neither one of us called for it. Synopsis 3737-700 First Officer reported crew received a GPWS warning on an ILS approach to BWI and encountered IMC conditions close to minimums, did not go around but landed.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZLC.ARTCC State Reference : UT Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 15500 Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZLC Aircraft Operator : Corporate Make Model Name : Medium Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Descent Airspace.CIass E : ZLC Person Reference : I Location Of Person.FaciIity : ZLC.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Enroute Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1474515 Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Confusion Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types : 11 Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Excursion From Assigned Altitude Anomaly.Deviation - Track / Heading : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 Human Factors Procedure I got off the land line and heard the radar controller issue a turn to the right for Aircraft X that was descending to 140 and about to enter an MIA polygon of 158. I saw what was going on and told the controller to also climb the aircraft, in which the Controller then climbed the aircraft to 158. The aircraft did appear to enter the 158 polygon before being level at 158. The aircrafts' routing showed QUIRT, DIJ. The R-side controller mentioned that the route was checked against the MIA polygons (prior to the aircraft checking in) and that the R- side controller thought 140 was a safe altitude to assign. Due to the solar eclipse, traffic volume is extremely high for this sector, including DIJ, IDA, AFO, RXE, 46U, PIH and BPI airports. During this busy session of traffic we had numerous instances in which the controllers on Sector 16 changed routes of aircraft after hand off without coordination. I'm not sure if this is something that happened with Aircraft X, but it makes me wonder since my R-side controller thought the original route was clear of the 158 polygon. It would help during high traffic volume times such as this for the solar eclipse to have standard routes for DIN arrivals so that we can have a smoother and more efficient operation. It would also be helpful to put all of the departures on the LAMON departure procedure to keep aircraft clear of JAC arrivals. Synopsis Salt Lake Center Controller reported that an aircraft came close to descending below a Minimum IFR Altitude but did not. Reporter stated traffic was extremely high due to solar eclipse traffic.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : MFR.Airport State Reference : OR Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 3200 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : MFR Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Large Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Landing Airspace.Class D : MFR Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience.Flight Crew. Total : 14554 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 10315 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1473958 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Detector.Automation : Aircraft Terrain Warning When Detected : In-flight Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1
VFR downwind landing RWY 14 at an altitude of 3,200 feet received terrain warning. Responded with warning procedures. Following landing uneventful. Synopsis Air Carrier Captain reported receiving a terrain warning on downwind to runway 14 at MFR at night, and responded with escape procedures then a normal landing.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 0001-0600 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZZZ.TRACON State Reference : US Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : A320 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Approach Airspace.CIass E : ZZZ Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.Flight Crew : Trainee Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1473787 Human Factors : Training / Qualification Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Excursion From Assigned Altitude Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Detector.Automation : Aircraft Terrain Warning Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : FLC complied w / Automation / Advisory Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors
Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 It was [early] morning as we were approaching on a moonless night into ZZZ (no visual outline of terrain). This was our 3rd flight of the day and our last day of this OE (Operating Experience) trip. We had been cleared for the visual approach so I, the pilot flying, proceeded with the descent. Having less than 20 hours of flight time in the airplane at the time was lacking judgement of descend profile and aircraft performance. As we had been cleared for the visual approach my goal was to descend, level off, configure and intercept. I recall that both pilots had terrain up on the ND (Navigational Display). As we received a GPWS alert, I responded to the alert. When we were clear of the conflict we had enough time to safely maneuver and land the airplane. I believe using open descend was providing an excessive descend rate. Synopsis A320 First Officer reported receiving a GPWS alert on a night visual approach.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : MMQT.Airport State Reference : FO Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 300 Environment Flight Conditions : Marginal Weather Elements / Visibility : Haze / Smoke Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Large Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Cargo / Freight Flight Phase : Initial Approach Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1473711 Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Became Reoriented Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airport Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related
Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Broke out of VOR approach Runway 9 MMQT near minimums, autopilot on with LNAV/VNAV. Approach was busy but not overwhelming. Mistook ground feature/structure that looked like a runway with a parallel taxiway (approx two miles short of runway) for the airport and attempted to line up on that "runway" with autopilot/autothrottles disconnected. Kept wondering, "Why does this airport look so strange?" Obviously because it was not a runway/airport. The First Officer said, "Do you see the runway out there?" (approx 300 AGL) At the same time I looked further out and identified the runway with four red on the PAPI, we received a "TOO LOW, TERRAIN" warning. I immediately added power to correct to the proper glide path and continued to a normal landing. Synopsis Large Transport Captain reported difficulty locating the runway at MMQT and receiving a "Too Low, Terrain" warning.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 3000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility : Haze / Smoke Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : 6 Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Piper Twin Piston Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Personal Nav In Use : GPS Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification Flight Crew : Private Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 3275 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 20 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 2100 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1473512 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Training / Qualification Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown. Party2 : ATC Events
Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Excursion From Assigned Altitude Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Detector.Automation : Aircraft Terrain Warning Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result. Flight Crew : FLC complied w / Automation / Advisory Result.Flight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 On an IFR flight plan, BUR was VMC so I asked for a visual approach. It was hazy and I don't fly into BUR and I couldn't positively identify the airport at 9-10 miles out, and it seemed like SOCAL wanted me to shoot an instrument approach. But I hadn't reviewed the approach plate and I was reluctant to just punch an approach into my Garmin 430W. I was trying to call up the approach on my iPad but it was hot and slow to respond. I prefer to review the approach plates well in advance, memorize the fixes and altitude restrictions. I think the issue was that BUR is near a lot of big hills, so if you don't say you see the airport, and you're relatively high, they want you to shoot an instrument approach. But, as stated, but I hadn't done my normal pre-approach briefing I didn't want to do it. BUR was hard VMC no ceiling and 5-7 miles visibility, as I recall, so I wasn't expecting to do an instrument approach. Twice I went down to 2500 ft, below the 3000 ft assigned. I was in VMC and completely clear of the hills and mountains, but ATC called an altitude alert. Autopilot apparently was in ATT (Attitude Hold) instead of ALT (Altitude Hold) mode. High stress, due to not being familiar with the approach and not being able to call it up on iPad or iPhone, and didn't apparently switch back to ALT mode after reaching 3000 ft. I think I'll try to do an approach review for flights into the Los Angeles area regardless of stated conditions. I'm wondering how I could find out in advance about this kind of issue in BUR? It didn't seem that near the mountains. Synopsis Piper twin pilot reported descending below an assigned altitude while on an approach to Burbank Airport.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : BUR. Tower State Reference : CA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 3500 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : BUR Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : A320 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Final Approach Airspace.Class C : BUR Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 6505 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 6055 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1473325 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Detector.Automation : Aircraft Terrain Warning Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Ambiguous Narrative: 1 Airspace Structure Human Factors Weather On arrival to runway 15 KBUR (Burbank) we requested runway 15 due to longer runway length and other possible runway had a slight tailwind. During approach and approaching SCRET we received a GPWS "TERRAIN TERRAIN, PULL UP". We complied and performed the escape maneuver. We advised ATC. We then requested and landed on runway 08. This was both the captains and first officers first time into this airport. Synopsis The Captain of an Airbus 320 reported that they received a GPWS alert during final approach.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : HCF.TRACON State Reference : HI Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 2300 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : HNL Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Climb Route In Use : Vectors Airspace.CIass B : HNL Aircraft : 2 ATC / Advisory. Tower : HNL Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Climb Route In Use : Vectors Airspace.CIass B : HNL Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.FaciIity : HCF.TRACON Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Supervisor / CIC Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control.Time Certified In Pos 1 (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1473209 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Confusion Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Conflict : Airborne Conflict : 10.0
Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : Flight Cancelled / Delayed Result.Flight Crew : Executed Go Around / Missed Approach Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Company Policy Narrative: 1 I was working the TRACON supervisor position when Aircraft X was sent around on runway 8L by local 1 due to an aircraft still on the runway. Local 2 was working an aircraft who was departing a parallel runway. There were numerous coordination's with the TRACON regarding headings and altitude of the two aircraft. In the end, Aircraft Y went to departure on a 120 heading, stopped at 2000 feet, which is below the Minimum Vectoring Altitude (MVA) and Aircraft X was on a 140 heading climbing to 040. Although I was not witness to the operation in the tower, and do not know what kinds of coordination happened, I feel having local 2 open in the tower is unsafe. The aircraft at Honolulu, both arrivals and departures, are so intertwined with each other that they should be on the same frequency, worked by the same person. Local 2 alleviates frequency congestion, but does not make the tower safer. It is unsafe to have aircraft in such close proximity to each other, crossing flight paths, and be on two different frequencies. I suggest terminating local 2 and going back to a single local control position. Synopsis HCF TRACON Supervisor reported a go around and a departure from parallel runways were cleared to conflicting headings with one of the aircraft assigned an altitude below the Minimum Vectoring Altitude.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : NCT.TRACON State Reference : CA Environment Flight Conditions : IMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : NCT Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Skylane 182/RG Turbo Skylane/RG Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Personal Nav In Use : GPS Flight Phase : Final Approach Route In Use : Vectors Airspace.Class E : NCT Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Facility : NCT.TRACON Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Approach Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1473203 Human Factors : Human-Machine Interface Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Confusion Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Private Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 665 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 52 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 476 : 3.0
ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1474173 Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Human-Machine Interface Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Training / Qualification Human Factors : Troubleshooting Human Factors : Distraction Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Overshoot Anomaly.Deviation - Track / Heading : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Detector. Person : Flight Crew Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : Flight Cancelled / Delayed Result.FIight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Flight Crew : Regained Aircraft Control Result.Flight Crew : Executed Go Around / Missed Approach Result.FIight Crew : Diverted Result.Flight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Aircraft X was cleared for the ZZZ RNAV approach, was given cancellation instructions, and was switched to advisory frequency. On short final I observed the aircraft make a left turn consistent with the published missed approach. The Low Altitude Alert began flashing with the aural alarm as the aircraft was still descending. I reached out to the aircraft to see if he was on my frequency, but with no response. I continued working my other traffic. Aircraft X started to make a left turn to the east no longer consistent with the published missed approach. I reached out to the aircraft and this time he was now on my frequency. The pilot advised he was "trying to get back on top". I told the aircraft to fly his present heading and climb and maintain 3000 feet. The aircraft was at 1000 feet and the Minimum Vectoring Altitude (MVA) is 2300 feet. I should have issued a safety alert for a climb immediately. The aircraft began making a left turn to the North. Again I advised the pilot to fly his present heading and climb and maintain 3000 feet. This was a vector below the MVA but as the pilot continued to make turns, I was trying to help the pilot get above the layer. I obtained pilot reports that nearby airports were clear despite the low ceiling indicated on the ATIS. Once the pilot was back above the layer I turned him toward a
different airport. I gave him the weather and pilot reports and asked for his intentions. The pilot decided to land at ZZZI. I re-cleared the pilot and coordinated with the Tower to make a Visual Approach with no restrictions. The pilot landed safely. I need to make sure that I issue the correct safety alerts. I felt the pilot was in distress and treated him as an emergency although I did not ask the pilot if this was the case I only advised them of an IFR change of destination. I was still trying to comprehend what I was seeing and my judgment was a little bit behind. I try to think of what to do in situations like these but the stress of the moment is hard to be prepared for. Narrative: 2 I was established on an approach inside FAF, stabilized and flying in a cloud with autopilot engaged. The ceiling was about 1200 feet and there was VFR traffic in pattern landing runway 20. I was still over the ocean and the ceiling was lower than at the airport and visibility essentially zero. I was flying the RNAV Approach (opposing pattern traffic) monitoring approach and CTAF and making position reports on CT AF as I approached airport. We recently installed Aspen evolution 1000 pro glass panel including adding a flight director to display. The AP/FD switch was installed by avionics shop in a position in the airplane that allows inadvertent disconnection of autopilot. Apparently I bumped the AP/FD switch disconnecting autopilot and the autopilot signaled disconnect. I was startled by the autopilot disconnect and I temporarily lost control of airplane beginning a turn and continuing to descend. When I regained control I was off course and all I wanted to do was climb back on top. When I was on top of the cloud and shaken up the Approach controller was very helpful in directing me to an airport that was in the clear. I flew uneventfully to that airport and landed. As I think back on this incident I realize that I need more help in transitioning to the recently installed avionics. I thought I could handle the transition without help, but I was mistaken. I am proficient with the avionics for VFR flight, but I need help developing a better scan for IMC. I also need help dealing with unexpected problems in IMC. I have scheduled time with my CFII to assist with my transition to glass panel. Synopsis C182 pilot and TRACON Controller reported a pilot deviation from the published missed approach and flight below Minimum Vectoring Altitude.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : MMMX.Airport State Reference : FO Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 8000 Environment Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : MMFR Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : A319 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1472678 Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Unstabilized Approach Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Detector.Automation : Aircraft Terrain Warning Detector. Person : Flight Crew
When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Became Reoriented Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 On ILS approach to Mexico City we were given headings to fly for a minute, then a turn to intercept the course. We asked for an altitude 3 times before we were given one, the first couple times just getting headings and airspeeds while being vectored on and off the approach. When I selected the altitude for about the third time while the first officer was calling the Tower, I accidentally put in 8000 ft instead of 8800 ft. The FO told me I was 300 ft high. I looked out the window as we were rolling onto the localizer and noticed the PAPI had 4 red lights. Since I was VFR and had the runway in sight, I turned off the autopilot and the autothrottles and stopped the descent and climbed to the proper PAPI glidepath. We got a warning at about the same time as I joined the proper glidepath, and I continued the approach visually to landing. With a good visual on the runway and on the glidepath and stable I determined we were in a safe position to land. We briefed the arrival and approach and reviewed the airport info for Mexico City several times and were well prepared for the arrival and approach. We were configured and at speed and on profile early and all was going well when ATC gave us a heading to fly for a minute then a turn to intercept without an altitude. Since we were being vectored off the course on the chart we asked for an altitude which took several times to get from ATC. If we were left on the arrival and approach as cleared I'm sure it would have gone as planned. The non-standard surprise clearances we received took us out of the green and into the yellow. Since the FO was on the radio rather than calling for the altitude to be set by him I set it myself. I set it wrong and neither of us caught it with all the changes we kept getting at a critical time of flight. Both the FO and I have learned from this event. In the future I will make sure that I get the entire clearance including altitude before turning to a heading while descending on an approach. I also will call for altitudes at critical times and verify them with my FO before communicating with ATC. Aviate, navigate, communicate. Synopsis A319 Captain reported several ATC clearance changes on approach to MMMX led to descending below the glideslope after incorrectly setting the altitude on the autopilot.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : FII.TRACON State Reference : FL Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 2700 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : Fli Make Model Name : Any Unknown or Unlisted Aircraft Manufacturer Flight Plan : IFR Flight Phase : Descent Route In Use : Vectors Airspace.CIass C : Fll Person Reference : I Location Of Person.FaciIity : FII.TRACON Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Approach Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control.Time Certified In Pos 1 (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1472504 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Distraction Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight : 17.0 Result.FIight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 Aircraft Human Factors Procedure
I descended an aircraft to 2700 feet. There is an obstruction at 2900 feet but at his rate of descent I always easily clear that antenna. The pilot asked if he was getting down to get under weather and I said no, it was to get under arrivals. Next thing I know he is below the Minimum Vectoring Altitude. I issued 2900 feet but he did not acknowledge. His rate of descent was extremely unusual and unexpected. I think he was hurrying down on his own in hopes of turning toward the airport. I told him I could not turn that close on an instrument approach so he went the long way. I think it would help if pilots told us they were doing a non standard rate of descent. I think I will never anticipate a standard rate again. Synopsis Air Traffic Controller reported descending an aircraft to an altitude below the Minimum Vectoring Altitude.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : ZZZ Place Locale Reference.Airport : ASN.Airport State Reference : AL Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 2300 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : BHM Aircraft Operator : Corporate Make Model Name : Citation 11 S2/Bravo (C550) Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Nav In Use. Localizer/GIidesIope/ILS : Runway 4 Flight Phase : Descent Airspace.Class E : BHM Person Reference : I Location Of Person.FaciIity : BHM.TRACON Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Approach Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos 1 (yrs) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1472485 Human Factors : Distraction Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Excursion From Assigned Altitude Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I was working radar with all positions combined. There was weather throughout the airspace and all airports were using instrument approaches. I took the hand off on Aircraft
X from north of ASN airport. I descended the aircraft to 090 due to the restricted area being active. Once the aircraft was past R 2102, I descended him to 070 due to a primary only IFR aircraft crossing TDG VOR at 060. Aircraft X requested lower so once he was separated from my non-radar target I descended him to 040 on the downwind for an ILS 04 approach to ASN. When I cleared the aircraft for the approach, I glanced up at the approach chart in an attempt to give him the lower altitude I was able in order to make his descent since I had to keep him so high. I looked at the altitude for the FAF (2300) instead of the IF (3100) but I did not go back and re-issue 3100 it because I thought his rate of descent would not fall below the required altitudes. I confirmed that the aircraft was established on the approach when the low altitude alert went off and I switched the aircraft to advisory frequency. I normally do not issue altitudes lower than the MVA in that area due to poor radar coverage but I was concerned with providing poor service by keeping the aircraft too high. The aircraft with no transponder and the weather distracted me from monitoring the situation more diligently. I should have requested assistance while working the session due to the weather and complexity. Apparently, there was an individual who witnessed the event occurring and failed to bring it to my attention. I should have been more conservative when issuing the altitude and when I realized the descent I gave could posed a problem. I should have addressed it. I will be much more cognizant Of my actions and consider aircraft performance more carefully in the future. Synopsis BHM Approach Controller reported issuing a clearance altitude below the Minimum Vectoring Altitude.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : DCA.Airport State Reference : DC Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 700 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : DCA Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Large Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.CIass B : DCA Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 393 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1472224 Human Factors : Human-Machine Interface Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Unstabilized Approach Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Detector.Automation : Aircraft Terrain Warning When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Returned To Clearance
Result.FIight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 We were cleared for visual approach at FERGI intersection to Runway 19 at DCA. At start of approach all parameters on profile, however, after completing landing configuration by GREYZ intersection, I chose to go outside to utilize visual cues to follow the river to the runway vice crosschecking the LNAV/VNAV information. Undershooting crosswind from the left also compounded line-up to undershoot from the northwest. Momentary obstacle alert and simultaneous low altitude alert from Tower resulted in immediate correction of approach navigational/line-up deviation resulting in uneventful landing. At no time was situational awareness comprised. Better understanding and choice of LNAV/VNAV Approach choices to be programmed into the FMC. I should have chosen to utilize RNAV (RNP) Runway 19 Approach which would have allowed me to couple aircraft to autopilot. Synopsis Air carrier First Officer reported that they chose to utilize visual cues to crosscheck the LNAV/VNAV information, as a result they received an obstacle alert and a low altitude alert.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : PBI.TRACON State Reference : FL Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 2000 Environment Flight Conditions : Marginal Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : PBI Aircraft Operator : Corporate Make Model Name : SR22 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Climb Route In Use : Vectors Airspace.Class D : PBI Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Facility : PBI.TRACON Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Departure Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1472184 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Confusion Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types : 1.0 Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control Result.Air Traffic Control : Separated Traffic Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Human Factors
Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 I was working the South Departure/Feeder position on a west operation. There was some weather in the area causing various deviations and increasing traffic complexity. Tower had turned a departure headed to a destination to the south, northbound. The North Departure was working this aircraft back west and south. They had left the aircraft at 3000 feet in order to top him with other departures and 3000 feet was the normal altitude for the aircraft's destination airport. The Tower then released Aircraft X. The departure strip scanned a 260 heading which is a standard heading for his departure transition area and type aircraft. SR22s climb and maintain 1500 feet on departure. I had issued a climb to 2000 feet reference the crossing traffic about 7 miles ahead Of him at 3000 feet and issue the traffic. After a while I noticed his course of flight had him much further south than a 260 heading. As I began to inquire about the tower assigned heading the Local controller keyed up the override and informed me he actually assigned a 240 heading, not a 260. I Immediately turned Aircraft X to a 270 heading because he had drifted into a 2600 MVA (Minimum Vectoring Altitude) for antennas but I was unable to climb due to the 3000 foot IFR traffic. Once I had determined I had positive lateral separation with the traffic I issued a climb to above the MVA. The approved tower assigned headings are 280, 260, or 190 so that aircraft do not depart into the 2600 foot MVA and have to stop at 1500 feet. The tower deviation from standard operating procedures and traffic limitations resulted in an aircraft coming in proximity to terrain. Recommend controllers adhere to published SOP in order to not depart IFR aircraft into an MVA above their initial altitude assuming the departure controller will be able to issue a climb above the MVA in a timely manner. Synopsis A Departure Controller received a departing aircraft on a heading which placed the aircraft below the Minimum Vectoring Altitude.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : DIO.TRACON State Reference : TX Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 3500 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : DIO Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B777 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 3 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Descent Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.CIass B : DFW Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1471431 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : First Officer Qualification. Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (AT P) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1471740 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC
Person : 3 Reference : 3 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1471739 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Excursion From Assigned Altitude Anomaly Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Returned To Clearance Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 On Downwind for runway 35C flying the BRDJE arrival passing approx 4,000 ft, ATC cleared us to 3,000ft and asked us to expedite the descent. Upon reaching approx 3,150 and on base leg, ATC advised us to maintain 3,500ft stating that this was the Minimum Vectoring Altitude (MVA). We confirmed that we had been cleared to 3,000 ft and the controller acknowledged that clearance had been issued by mistake. We climbed to 3,500 and made the visual approach and landed without incident. All crew were at stations. Narrative: 2 On downwind for ILS 35C/visuaI approach, we were complying with a "expedite descent to 3000" clearance issued by [ATC]. At approximately 3150 feet, controller issued "climb to 3500 feet for MVA" (this occurred as we were midway through base turn). This clearance put us back at the base of the clouds which thinned as we headed north "cleared to intercept the localizer". Shortly thereafter, we called "visual" and landed without incident. Tower issued an altitude (3000 feet) clearance below his MVA in error. He corrected his clearance to 3500 feet. We maintained compliance with both. Will continue to comply with ATC approach clearances in safe conditions. Narrative: 3 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis
3777 flight crew reported descending to altitude assigned by ATC, which was an error and below the Minimum Vectoring Altitude. ATC Caught the error and issued crew a higher altitude.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Place Locale Reference.Airport : SNA.Airport State Reference : CA Altitude.MSL.SingIe Value : 2200 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : SCT Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : A320 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Final Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Route In Use.STAR : DSNEE Airspace.CIass C : SNA Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 132 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1471331 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 12080 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 10870
ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1471345 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Detector.Automation : Aircraft Terrain Warning Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Airport Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I was the Pilot Flying as FO, and the CA was Pilot Monitoring on our final leg to SNA. Prior to our initial descent into SNA we had conducted a thorough arrival and approach briefing which reviewed the terrain located in the vicinity of the final approach course, and also GPWS cautions and warnings (as well as the appropriate recoveries to me made in the event of a GPWS caution or warning). The CA has also commented that with the new DSNEE routing careful caution should be made to the rate of descent, as a high rate of descent could cause GPWS alert. We were cleared for a visual approach to runway 20R at SNA and I had asked the CA to extend BONKE in the FMGC. I maneuvered the aircraft in heading mode just outside of LEMON intersection. The CA set 2200 as the MSA at LEMON, as we continued our descent, I shifted my heading about 5 degrees (still inside BONKE), just as the ALT displayed, a "terrain, terrain" warning sounded momentarily. We both had visual of the terrain, and also noted the Radar Altimeter reflecting a positive trend as we continued the approach. After a successful approach the CA and I debriefed the event at the gate. We should have set 2800 as our ALT in the FCU as my intercept angle to the final approach had changed by a few degrees vs the lower 2200 at LEMON. This was a positive learning experience, especially as a new FO. Narrative: 2 We were cleared for a visual approach to Runway 20R SNA. We had conducted a thorough briefing of the approach to include terrain near the approach course and GPWS caution/warnings and appropriate actions to be taken. I mentioned the new arrival course takes us closer to the terrain and should we descend at too excessive a rate may result in a GPWS caution alert due to the closer rate. FO asked for BONKE to be extended and began to use heading toward just outside of the LEMON intersection. I set 2200 ft as the MSA for LEMON. I divided my attention between looking at the airport outside of the windshield, the altimeter and radar ALT. I observed the FO turn slightly further right but still between LEMON and BONKE and just as ALT (altitude capture) occurred at 2200 ft and I saw approximately 1800 ft on radar altimeter a "terrain, terrain" warning annunciated. We could clearly see the terrain and the radar altimeter was already climbing. We continued the approach and landed uneventfully and debriefed at the gate. I had set 2200 ft as I assumed we would fly directly toward LEMON. I should have changed the altitude on the FCU as we turned a little further toward BONKE to 2800 ft which is the MSA outside of BONKE. My familiarity with this approach and John Wayne airport led me to be complacent about setting the MSA when our intercept angle changed. In the future I will
clarify the PF intention as to the point to intercept the final approach course. The FO is new to the Airbus, we both learned from this event. Synopsis A320 flight crew reported a terrain warning during a day visual approach to Runway 20R at SNA and continued the approach to landing while the terrain warning quickly silenced.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : PDX.Airport State Reference : OR Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 2300 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : P80 Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : A320 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Final Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.CIass C : PDX Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience.Flight Crew. Total : 2982 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 855 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1471320 Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 10909 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 270
Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 7490 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1471326 Events Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Detector.Automation : Aircraft Terrain Warning Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.FIight Crew : Became Reoriented Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Environment - Non Weather Related Narrative: 1 On approach into PDX RWY 28R, we were cleared the visual during night/VMC conditions. ATC cleared us to descend and maintain 2,000 feet until 6 mile final or TOLOC. During the descent, approximately 5 miles south of TOLOC, the GPWS sounded "Terrain, Terrain, Pull up, Pull up." Captain initiated the CFIT recovery. As he initiated the escape maneuver, the GPWS warning ceased prior to Captain reaching Takeoff/Go Around (TOGA) thrust and full aft stick. I verbalized, "TOGA thrust, Stow Speed Brakes" and verified speed brakes were stowed. The terrain and landing environment was in clear sight. During the recovery, the altitude horn sounded. Captain began a recovery to assigned altitude, descending to 2,000 feet. Aircraft momentarily descended below 2,000 feet. Almost immediately following the cessation of the GPWS warning, a traffic alert was received. ATC advised us of the traffic and reissued the altitude clearance. Landed uneventfully. Narrative: 2 On visual approach to runway 28R in PDX coming from the south at 2500 feet VMC radar control with airport and runway in sight, auto-pilot on, ATC told us to descend 2000 until outer marker and cleared for visual app 28R. Captain flying initiated descent on auto-pilot and proceeded direct to outer marker. Approximately 200 knots flaps-I, 5 miles from outer marker and cross-checking glide slope indicator (announced). [At] approximately 2300 feet GPWS system calls, "Terrain, terrain, pull-up, pull-up". Captain initiates CFIT procedure and then quickly terminates procedure as the warning stopped and had ground environment in sight and airport and runway in sight. Then a traffic warning and an ATC call is announced for traffic. The loud altitude warning horn is heard- (initial descent was to 2000 feet but climbing and now greater than 2000 altitude deviation caused the altitude warning horn). Flight Control Unit altitude is increased to stop the horn. Captain descended towards 2000 feet for the approach. Captain momentarily descended below 2000 with traffic in sight, while aligning for runway landing. Aircraft lined up for approach 28R and uneventful landing. During post flight debrief and aircraft ground track analysis, Captain determined the spot elevation 5 miles south of TOLOC outer marker contributed to the potential CFIT trigger. Synopsis A320 flight crew experienced a GPWS terrain warning descending to 2000 feet 5 NM south of TOLOC during a night visual approach to PDX.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : DOI.TRACON State Reference : CO Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 7000 Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : DOI Make Model Name : Small Aircraft, High Wing, I Eng, Fixed Gear Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use : Vectors Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.TRACON : DOI Make Model Name : Any Unknown or Unlisted Aircraft Manufacturer Flight Plan : IFR Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use : Vectors Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Facility : DOI.TRACON Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Approach Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1471219 Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Conflict : Airborne Conflict 1 (yrs) : 5.0 Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight
Result.FIight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I was assigned to split off JeLo, which is a position that is rarely split off from west departure. The CIC and Front Line Manager (FLM) said that I could just plug in and help if it was too busy to split it. I got there and observed that west departure was busy, but handling it. I sat down and set up my scope and scanned the traffic. I saw that there was an aircraft for EIK, an aircraft on final (Aircraft Y). I took a call from BJC Tower saying that "Aircraft X needs to return to the airport". I looked and saw Aircraft Y and assumed that's who they were talking about, though he was on final. I told BJC Tower to use the JeLo frequency. I told the west departure controller this and he said? "You're keeping him? Alright." I asked about the BJC releases and he gave me the strip of the release, then the proposal strips. At some point he said "you got it" and I was surprised, because I hadn't been able to call for a briefing. I asked Aircraft Y what he needed, and Aircraft X said he needed vectors to the ILS at BJC. I was looking at Aircraft Y on final. I think I asked him if he needed to be boxed around, but I'm not sure. I issued a left turn to 170. Aircraft X asked about what altitude to maintain. Thinking I was talking to Aircraft Y, I told him 7,000. I called BJC Tower thinking that Aircraft Y was just taking his time starting his turn, letting them know that he would enter their airspace. The BJC Controller questioned me, saying that "we have this departure coming out". Thinking that the only problem was Aircraft Y, I said it wouldn't matter. Then I saw Aircraft X just north of BJC. I figured out later, after I saw the strip, that he was coming from BDU. He was beneath the MVA and very close to the BJC departure that had just tagged up. I issued a vector to the west and a climb to 8,000. Once they passed I issued a vector to the southeast. At some point in this west departure flashed Aircraft X to me. I should have insisted on a recorded briefing. I got wrapped up in thinking that the other controller was down the tubes and needed help immediately. This shortcut caused me to miss a vital piece of the picture. I also could have listened to the call signs more carefully. I'm not sure if I made the mental shortcut of saying "Aircraft X" and thinking I'm talking to Aircraft Y. I'll be very vigilant about that kind of thing. Synopsis A DOI TRACON Controller misidentified aircraft with similar sounding call signs and issued a descent and heading to an aircraft below the Minimum Vectoring Altitude and into confliction with departing traffic.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 8000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Regional Jet 200 ER/LR (CRJ200) Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.Class E : ZZZ Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Function.FIight Crew : Captain Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1471007 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Workload Events Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Detector.Automation : Aircraft Terrain Warning Were Passengers Involved In Event : N When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.Flight Crew : FLC complied w / Automation / Advisory Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 Human Factors Procedure On approach into ZZZ we were given the visual approach to runway 24. The First Officer was PF (Pilot Flying) at the time and I briefed him on the terrain that surrounds the airport and how we should be configured and slowed in order to be able to maneuver in the valley to set up for landing. We entered a downwind at 220kts and 8000ft MSL while still on autopilot control. The FO (First Officer) began a slow descent while trying to slow the aircraft to configure flaps. We continued on downwind and selected flaps 8 and 20 and began a base turn around 9 miles from the airport. The autopilot was selected off at this time and we continued descent on the base leg. I instructed the FO to begin turning final and he put the aircraft in about a 15 degree banks without adding power. This increased our descent rate. Around this time we received a CAUTION TERRAIN message from EGWPS. Immediately after that came a single TERRAIN TERRAIN PULL UP warning message. I took control of the aircraft, increased power, leveled the descent and increased bank to 30 degrees which stopped the EGPWS warnings after a single message. I aligned the aircraft on a 6 miles final on glide path and returned controls to the first officer, who completed a stabilized approach by 1000 ft AGL and a normal landing. We both became task saturated trying to maneuver the aircraft in the valley while configuring the aircraft for landing. I diverted my attention away from the terrain and altitude to look at the airport and instruct the First Officer on lining up the plane on final. In future landings at this airport, I will be requesting vectors for the ILS approach which will ensure all terrain separation. In times where a visual approach is being made I will be better at scanning inside and outside the cockpit to ensure the safe operation of the aircraft at all times. Synopsis Air Carrier Captain reported that the First Officer failed to add power while initiating a turn onto final resulting in a EGPWS warning.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : MHT.Airport State Reference : NH Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 2500 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : MHT Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Medium Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Nav In Use.Localizer/GIidesIope/ILS : Runway 17 Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use : Vectors Airspace.CIass C : MHT Component Aircraft Component : GPWS Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1470856 Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier
Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1470855 Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Detector. Person : Flight Crew Were Passengers Involved In Event : N When Detected : In-flight Result.General : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 We were cleared for the ILS 17 into MHT, when we were descended to, 2500 ft given heading 140 to intercept, and cleared for the approach. We were passing a scattered layer when we got the field in sight. As the aircraft turned from heading 140 and intercepted the localizer, we received I "Terrain" aural annunciation. I immediately reached to turn off the autopilot, asked the FO (First Officer) to look for terrain, and scanned around myself. We saw no terrain and received no further warnings. I left the autopilot on and had the aircraft continue the approach and land in a normal, stabilized fashion. I believe this was an anomaly. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis Air carrier flight crew reported receiving what was suspected to be an erroneous aural terrain warning while intercepting the Runway 17 localizer at MHT.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : BJC.Airport State Reference : CO Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 6100 Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : BJC Aircraft Operator : Corporate Make Model Name : Small Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Approach Airspace.CIass D : BJC Person Reference : I Location Of Person.FaciIity : BJC.Tower Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Local Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1470488 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types : 7.9 Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Excursion From Assigned Altitude Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Detector.Automation : Air Traffic Control Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Aircraft X was approaching the airport and I noticed he appeared to be north of the approach course, still outside our airspace. As he got closer, I noticed he was still north and appeared to be descending below the glide slope. I called in the blind to see if he was on frequency and as he checked on, the low altitude alert sounded. The approach controller was simultaneously calling on the shout line about the safety alert and the Ground Control position handled the coordination while I issued the alert. I immediately issued the low altitude alert to Aircraft X, advised of his altitude, and asked for his intentions. I don't believe I received a response and immediately suggested for the pilot to climb, then more firmly issued to him to "Maintain 8000, turn right 010" (missed approach instructions). The pilot still did not comply, but then finally reported he had the airport in sight. I felt I might have little time to act, and suspected the pilot was behind the airplane and might be encountering difficulty (or even an emergency), so I instructed that if he had the airport in sight, he was cleared to land. I visually spotted the aircraft as well. The pilot acknowledged and I saw him fly a tight pattern into the runway, and he landed safely. During the event, Aircraft Y was holding short. Prior to Aircraft X checking on, I decided I did not want to launch the departure, as I was not sure I could ensure IFR separation if Aircraft X became a missed approach. Another strong reminder to plan ahead and control conservatively during some situations in the tower environment, particularly when visual separation is not an option. After the incident, I reflected that we did have descent visibility below the bases and I wondered if perhaps the pilot had ground contact and decided to initiate a contact approach. However, if this was the case, he did not inform the approach controller or us, and thus it was quite a scare to see an aircraft descend that low a good distance from the airport during IMC conditions. A strong reminder to always be prepared to issue safety alerts. It's important for pilots to understand that if they are encountering difficulty or even finding an approach challenging, ATC needs to know about it as soon as practical. We're on duty to provide you with the maximum assistance we can, but we can't help if we don't know a problem exists or what you'd like to do. Our control instructions include assumptions that pilots will fly an instrument approach a certain way, and we need to know as soon as possible if the flight crew intends to deviate off that procedure (such as to complete a contact approach or more routinely, a visual approach). Unless invoking pilot in command authority, make sure ATC knows and has approved your request first! There may be other traffic or obstacles nearby, coordination may first be required with another facility, etc. and ATC will respond accordingly to the request. Synopsis BJC Local Controller reported an aircraft on approach descended below the glideslope and triggered a low altitude alert.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : BOI.TRACON State Reference : ID Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 6700 Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : BOI Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Medium Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Nav In Use : GPS Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use.Other Airspace.CIass C : BOI Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person. Facility : BOI.TRACON Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Approach Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1470468 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Confusion Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Flight Crew : Executed Go Around / Missed Approach Result.FIight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance
Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Chart Or Publication Environment - Non Weather Related Human Factors Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 An aircraft was on the RNAV Y approach. I vectored and used speed control to put Aircraft X behind the aircraft on the RNAV Z approach. I failed to anticipate the compression caused by the aircraft on the RNAV Y slowing and the arc of the approach cutting the corner and did not provide enough space. Aircraft X was on the arc portion of the RNAV approach below the MVA (Minimum Vectoring Altitude) and I had to cancel their approach clearance and vector and climb them to resolve the separation with the aircraft on the RNAV Y. I told Aircraft X to cancel approach clearance and fly heading 100 and maintain 7000 feet. He read it back and I said "correction turn left hand turn heading 280 maintain 7000." Another aircraft checked on and I told them to stand by and went back to Aircraft X who was showing in a full right turn to continue the right turn because left at that point was worse for terrain than keeping the right turn going. He said "we are already established in the left hand turn is this going to work?" I told him "no delay climb to 7100" which is the MVA. He clipped the lower right hand edge of that MVA climbing through 6700 feet. Sequencing the RNAV RNP approach is difficult. I will not try to do that again without building in more space. I think my heading change caused the pilot to turn the wrong direction making a bad situation worse. Synopsis BOI TRACON Controller reported insufficient spacing caused an aircraft to be vectored off the RNAV Approach into a higher MVA.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 0001-0600 Place Locale Reference.Airport : BOI.Airport State Reference : ID Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 6500 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : BOI Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : EMB ERJ 170/175 ER/LR Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Descent Route In Use : Vectors Airspace.CIass E : BOI Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person. Facility : BOI.TRACON Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Instructor Function.Air Traffic Control : Approach Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1470162 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Training / Qualification Human Factors : Distraction Communication Breakdown.PartyI : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types 1 (yrs) Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Excursion From Assigned Altitude Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 One runway operation due to construction. Training new controller on north radar combined up with south radar. We were talking about sequencing and spacing for general aviation aircraft following a B737 from the south. Aircraft X was put on a vector heading 260 to maintain 9000 for spacing with the multiple GA aircraft inbound from the north. Aircraft X read back 260 down to 6000 and both trainee and I missed the read back. We then went back to talking about the spacing needed for the previous arrivals. We both noticed the altitude when he was descending through 6500 in a 6500 MVA and told him to climb. I totally missed the read back. Don't assume the pilots are going to read the headings and altitudes back correctly. I think the 260 heading kind of jostled the pilots mind so that is where he got 6000 for his final altitude he read back to us. Complacency is not a good attribute in this career. No harm happened thankfully but it was a wakeup call for me to be more vigilant in getting correct read backs. Synopsis BOI T RACON Controller reported a missed read back which almost led to an aircraft descending below the Minimum Vectoring Altitude.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : OBU.Airport State Reference : AK Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 4000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZAN Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Small Aircraft, Low Wing, 2 Eng, Retractable Gear Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use : Direct Airspace.Class E : ZAN Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.FIight Crew : Lighter-Than-Air Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Experience.Flight Crew. Total : 1492 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 108 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 399 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1470109 Human Factors : Confusion Events Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Excursion From Assigned Altitude Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT
Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Returned To Clearance Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 This was my first ever time flying any approach into OBU, because of this I briefed the approach twice while enroute. I was cleared for RNAV (GPS) Rwy 09 into OBU direct KOPGE then the KOPGE TAA. I got the altimeter setting from AFM descended to 4000 ft within 30 miles of KOPGE. I was on a direct line from west (approximately 15 NM west) of the HSL VOR to KOPGE at 7000 ft. ATC cleared me for the approach 70 NM south of KOPGE (I was approximately 15 west of HSL at the time) and advised I that turn to advisory frequency. This was unusual to me as I am not usually cleared that far out and turned over to advisory that early. Later I learned it is because there is no coverage there and I cannot raise center in that area. I fixated on the JIDGA IAF and the initial approach altitude of 4000. I confirmed the route on my iPad which was up to date. Also I, as is my habit, checked the profile view on my iPad to make sure there were no terrain conflicts and none were noted. I was VMC the entire time during this event, I was flying the approach because ceilings were reported at 900 ft and I wanted to do the correct thing and fly IFR into OBU rather than "Scud run" it into the airport. I received a relay call from an airliner that there had been an altitude alert ATC's screen for me and requested I climb to 6000 which I did. I reached KOPGE descended back down to 4000 and completed the approach. I contacted Fairbanks radio as per the relay instructions but at this time I went IMC and they asked me to take a phone number to call ATC when I can. I declined at the time because I was busy on the approach and said I would call when able. The rest of the approach went as planned, I broke out around 850 ft finished the landing to Runway 09, called FSS on my phone copied the number and called Center to at which time I realized what I had done on the approach, I descended below the IAF altitude which gave the alert. The entire event occurred when I was in VMC conditions before reaching KOPGE. I was above a layer all the way to KOPGE, then I descended at KOPGE below the clouds. Synopsis Light twin pilot reported failing to maintain required altitude while on approach to OBU resulting in an altitude alert from ATC.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZLC.ARTCC State Reference : UT Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 9500 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZLC Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Small Transport, Low Wing, 2 Recip Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Direct Airspace.CIass E : ZLC Person Reference : I Location Of Person. Facility : ZLC.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Enroute Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1469592 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Communication Breakdown.Party1 : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Flight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.FIight Crew : Landed As Precaution Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 Aircraft Airspace Structure Aircraft X was IFR when he requested a destination change. I issued the clearance "Cleared to the ... airport via direct, descend at pilot's discretion, maintain one zero thousand, altimeter" The pilot stumbled a bit on his readback and added something at the end that was unreadable, but I figured it was the reason he was diverting, so I asked him to say again the last part. He responded that he had a left alternator issue. I asked if he needed any assistance, and he said "no". I then tried to communicate with the pilot about NOTAMs and have him report receipt of weather, but got no response. I later observed the aircraft descend below the MIA (Minimum IFR Altitude), down to 9500 feet. Since he had reported an alternator issue, I could only imagine that he'd lost radio contact and had the field in sight and was commencing approach. He later got back on radio and said he had been off the radio listening to weather. I restated one zero thousand as assigned altitude and he climbed back up. Upon review of the radio tape, the pilot did not read back the assigned altitude when I initially cleared him to his destination. I would question when a pilot doesn't readback an altitude clearance. Even though the only thing technically required of them to read back is a hold short clearance, the language says pilots "should" readback altitude assignments, and I as a controller can solicit a readback. Synopsis A Center Controller observed a diverting aircraft with an alternator problem descend without a clearance to an altitude below the Minimum IFR Altitude.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : NCT.TRACON State Reference : CA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 3000 Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : NCT Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Small Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Climb Route In Use : Vectors Airspace.CIass B : SFO Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Facility : NCT.TRACON Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Departure Function.Air Traffic Control : Approach Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1468243 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Distraction Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types : 9.5 Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 Procedure Human Factors Airspace Structure Aircraft X departed San Carlos and was handed off to me on radar vectors. I vectored the aircraft north of SJC because there were departures released off of SJC climbing to 5000 ft during west plan operations. When Aircraft X was far enough to the north of the airport, I turned it eastbound. I got distracted by a VFR hand off from the southeast at 10,500 ft MSL that was in the way of all the SJC departures. I resolved the situation to the southeast, and when I scanned back to see where Aircraft X was, I saw that it had entered the 4100 ft MVA at 3000 ft. I immediately climbed the aircraft to 5000 ft with the request to expedite the climb. Aircraft X complied with a quick climb above the MVA. When there are Low ceilings in the SJC area, the amount of IFR departures from SQL, PAO, NUQ, and RHV increase significantly. I would recommend that management personnel keep a abreast of weather conditions, and assign a hand off position before peak traffic starts. Extra sets of eyes could help minimize situations like this. Synopsis NCT TRACON Controller reported that an aircraft was inadvertently held at 3000 feet in a 4100 foot MVA area.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 300 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Cessna 150 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Initial Climb Airspace.CIass D : ZZZ Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 1303 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days . 135 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 350 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1467244 Human Factors : Training / Qualification Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Weight And Balance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action
Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Ambiguous Narrative: 1 Company Policy Human Factors Aircraft Weather Procedure I departed ZZZ for closed traffic and then pickup up an foot advertising banner. Prior to my departure the owner of [the banner business] told me that no one had ever towed a banner this big with this aircraft. Based upon my experience with [this aircraft], I expected it to do very well. I hooked the sign on the first pass and experienced a slower rate Of climb. I was instantly told to return for a drop because it wasn't flying correctly. By the time I turned base I still hadn't reached pattern altitude but I believed it likely had to do with whatever was wrong with the sign. I dropped the sign in the grass without incident and returned to assist setting it up for another pick. While we were doing this, [the owner] asked me if I thought I was going to be able to pull it okay. I said, "Yes, I think so, as long as it's okay for me to climb straight to reach 1000 ft prior to any turns". He agreed with this strategy. I departed a second time for closed traffic, missed the first attempt and successfully picked up the sign on my second. The tower verified that the sign was towing straight but again I experienced a very anemic rate of climb. Despite some radio problems, I was given permission to Pick up the banner and continue banner ops just using the hand held. However, since the throttle friction lock, allows the throttle to back off a tiny bit I never felt like I could abandon it under this poor performance to pick up the radio. I continued south as I said I would. I reached 300 ft and could not climb higher and struggled with this all the way. My airspeed was between 45 and 50. At some point I began experiencing a 200 FPM rate of descent. If something didn't change fast I was going to drop it. I cleaned the wings to zero flaps (was on 5 degrees) and zig zagged a little towards headings more favorable for wind lift or towards hotter areas for thermal assist. I continued south all the way to a point in where again I was unable to sustain altitude and the banner apparently clipped the top of a tree. I felt a light tug and turned to see some leaves falling. Later inspection by a fellow tow pilot revealed no damage to the sign. I successfully turned back north and eventually was able to climb to 600 ft and return to drop to the north. Apparently 80 x 40 ft is just too big for this airplane. My boss expressed his disapproval of my decision-making and insisted that I should have ditched the sign off airport instead of struggling to continue. There were perhaps eight to ten sites where I could have done so. Each time, the reason I continued was that it seemed to me that what I was doing was working and I was able to climb again. However, my gains were unsustainable and I was never able to get past 400 ft while heading south. The reason I continued south so far was that I did not want to diminish my vertical component of lift with the demands of a turn. When I later told this to [the owner], he reminded me that turning is how banner tows slack the line and climb. In retrospect, I do remember hearing this during my training but it's not something we ever practiced with a drill of any kind and I never had it reinforced with any kind of reading. Perhaps it would have worked to some degree but the reality is this: that banner was too big for that airplane and the drag was too great. Based upon my limited experience with towing, I believed it would be up to the job. It definitely wasn't. Originally, I was trying to climb at
50 MPH with 5 degrees of flaps as I was trained. When that failed, I cleaned the wings to zero flaps and tried multiple air speeds to find that about 47 MPH produced the most climb. After the incident with the tree, I was over an obstacle free flat pasture area. This was another location where I could have safely ditched but again I was able to get it to climb. I slowly continued a slight left turn through the valley and started tracking back to the north. I tightened the throttle friction lock, pitched down a little and communicated to ZZZ Tower that there was a problem with the sign and I needed to return for a drop. They told me I was cleared to drop to the north and I did so without incident. I suspect [the owner's] inquiry about my ability to tow this banner with this plane reveals what he already knew: this was questionable and I was performing as a test pilot. In retrospect, I think we should have attempted it early one cool morning instead of finding out in the thinner air of an 80 degree day with 1360 ft density altitude. If permitted to continue to serve in this way I will not tow an 80x40 banner with this aircraft and if I ever face with the same scenario I will ditch the sign at the first suitable site. Synopsis CISO banner tow pilot reported operating with a banner that was much too large for the aircraft.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : OSH.Airport State Reference : WI Relative Position. Distance. Nautical Miles : 3 Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 1400 Environment Flight Conditions : Marginal Weather Elements / Visibility : Cloudy Weather Elements / Visibility.VisibiIity : 1 Light : Daylight Ceiling.Single Value : 500 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : MKE Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Small Aircraft Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.Class G : MKE Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 2800 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 80 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 2600 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1467211 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFTT / CFIT Detector. Person : Flight Crew
When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Tried to get IFR reservation to Oshkosh, but could not because they were all taken. I chose to get IFR reservation to C47, a nearby airport, with the plan to shoot an instrument approach to runway 18 at C47, then either plan A: land and wait for weather to turn VFR and continue from there to OSH VIA visual approach in OSH NOTAM (RIPON TO FISK, then direct OSH, or plan B: if I broke out visually on the approach to C47 then Fly visually to OSH VIA RIPON and FISK per NOT AM. On the descent on the approach, I did break out visually before reaching minimums, at about 1400 MSL. I then elected to fly at 1400 MSL to RIPON to try the visual approach. The problem was cloud bases were ragged and less than 100 feet above me, I had no cloud separation, barely keeping clear of clouds and barely 400-500 feet AGL. I rationalized this was 0K because of the special circumstances of air adventure 2017 procedures at OSH. FORTUNATELY, everything worked out and conditions improved to VFR after I passed FISK inbound to OSH Traffic pattern. But I was taking a risk by scud running in such a narrow margin and declaring my own special VFR without ATC permission. I did have ADS-B out on board but that does not show all traffic. Worst case, I could have collided with another plane which was also scud running nearby, or hit a tower/wires. I should have landed at C47 and waited patiently for weather to get better between C47 and FISK before proceeding to OSH. Synopsis General aviation pilot reported operating below cloud minimum clearances enroute to Oshkosh Air Venture after breaking out from a nearby IFR approach.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 0001-0600 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : DEN. Tower State Reference : CO Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 6800 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : DEN Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Large Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Climb Flight Phase : Final Approach Route In Use : Vectors Airspace.CIass B : DEN Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory. Tower : DEN Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Large Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 129 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Final Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.CIass B : DEN Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Facility : DEN. Tower Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Local Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1466556 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Confusion Events : 3.5
Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly.Deviation - Track / Heading : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result. General : Flight Cancelled / Delayed Result.Flight Crew : Executed Go Around / Missed Approach Result.FIight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Result.Air Traffic Control : Separated Traffic Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Chart Or Publication Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Manuals Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 Aircraft X checked on the frequency for the left runway. I issued a landing clearance and issued parallel traffic which was Aircraft Y. Aircraft Y checked on and I received a low altitude alert. I was issuing the low altitude alert, calling traffic about Aircraft X and issuing control instructions as Aircraft Y started going through their final all simultaneously. As Aircraft Y was now directly under Aircraft X I knew it was safe as Aircraft X was more than a 1000 foot above Aircraft Y. Not knowing what Aircraft Y was going to do, I elected to send Aircraft X around and issued those instructions. Aircraft Y maneuvered as instructed for the correct runway. Aircraft X was vectored for another approach. Adhere to Letter of Agreement to off load foreign carriers to a runway complex without conflicting traffic. A final controller should ensure that foreign carriers, unfamiliar pilots, or anyone in question comply with instructions for final approach course intercept before communications transfer when there is possible conflicting traffic. Synopsis DEN Tower Controller observed an aircraft overshoot the final approach course and had to issue parallel runway traffic go-around instructions.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ALO.TRACON State Reference : IA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 7000 Environment Weather Elements / Visibility : Rain Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ALO Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : PA-32 Cherokee Six/Lance/Saratoga/6X Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Direct Airspace.CIass E : ALO Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Facility : ALO.TRACON Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Approach Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1466548 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Troubleshooting Human Factors : Situational Awareness Communication Breakdown.PartyI : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Excursion From Assigned Altitude Anomaly.Deviation - Track / Heading : All Types Anomaly Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.Flight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification
Result.Flight Crew : Regained Aircraft Control Result.FIight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I was working Arrival position and was also Controller in Charge (CIC). There were some areas of weather in my airspace as well as the surrounding areas. I had just taken the position when Aircraft X checked on frequency entering my airspace as an overflight at 7000 feet. Our facility does not have weather radar so I advised the pilot of possible area of precipitation at 11 0'clock, 10 miles extending 15 miles northeast, type and intensity unknown. He acknowledged and said he would look out for it. The previous sector called to advise that Aircraft X was deviating south of course for weather. Approximately 10 minutes later I observed Aircraft X's altitude had dropped to 6500 feet very quickly. I asked him to say altitude. I received a garbled, unreadable response. I tried to contact him again and he responded with "I need help air traffic". His altitude was dropping rapidly during this time. I asked him how I could assist him but received no response. I told him that it appeared he was in a descent and asked if he was encountering weather. After no response again I transmitted to respond when able for assistance. His next transmission was to ask if air traffic was with him and I told him I was. He did not respond and was continuing to descend. I advised him that an airport was 20 miles southeast of his position if he needed to land. He still did not respond and at that point it appeared he would not recover from the spiral dive he seemed to be in. Another airport was 2 miles northwest of his position. As I was broadcasting the location of this airport to him the low altitude alert went off so I added that into the transmission. I only stated "Low Altitude Alert, I'm showing you at one thousand niner hundred descending." The Minimum Vectoring Altitude where he was at is 3000 feet and the lowest I saw him at was 1800 feet. He climbed to around 2000 feet so I suggested a 180 heading to avoid the weather in case that was the issue. I attempted contact again with no response. He finally reestablished contact and said he wanted to come in and land. I asked if he could climb and what his heading was. He said yes and that he was heading 114. I told him to climb to 3000 feet and remain on current heading for the airport. I asked if he needed assistance when he landed and he said no. I gave him to expect a Visual Approach and gave him the winds, runway and altimeter. When he reported airport in sight I cleared him for a Visual Approach and switched him to the tower. He landed without incident and was asked to call the facility. I didn't speak to him but he advised the Supervisor that he got disoriented in the clouds and that his headset cord came unplugged during the descent. I'm not sure there's anything that can be done by ATC to prevent this kind of situation. For pilots I would recommend avoiding flying if there is weather along your route of flight or deviate well away from it. Synopsis
ALO TRACON Controller reported a temporary loss of contact with an aircraft which descended on its own to an altitude below the Minimum Vectoring Altitude.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : HCF.TRACON State Reference : HI Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 4800 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility : Cloudy Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : 10 Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 4800 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : HCF Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Small Transport Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : IFR Flight Phase : Initial Approach Airspace.Class E : HCF Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.CTAF : JHM Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Small Transport Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : VFR Flight Phase : Climb Route In Use : None Airspace.Class E : HCF Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Facility : HCF.TRACON Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Approach Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1466524 Human Factors : Time Pressure Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events : 2.75
Anomaly Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Returned To Clearance Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Aircraft X was on the instrument approach into JHM. The Aircraft before him reported BKN048 10 NW of the airport. Aircraft X was 15 NW of JHM descending when a VFR aircraft on a 1200 squawk departed JHM head on. I issued traffic advisories to Aircraft X but had no idea who the other aircraft was. Traffic advisories became traffic alerts 5 miles between the two aircraft at 4800 (same AL T). Then at two miles at 4800 the Captain says "I'm going right". A right turn would have put the Aircraft X even closer and the targets would have merged. I told the Aircraft X to make a left 360 before proceeding back on course, they were below the MVA at the time but over water. I noticed Aircraft X had climbed to 5000 and asked if they had an RA. The pilot replied in the affirmative and I reported it to my Supervisor. Later we found out the other aircraft was Aircraft Y when they requested flight following from the adjacent sector. Recommendations: I. Request flight following in and out of JHM. 2. JHM issues a VFR code on the ground and has them contact HCF on departure. 3. Development of a VFR procedure where aircraft remain clear of the final approach course. Synopsis HCF Controller reported an airborne conflict between an IFR departure and a VFR aircraft.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : SCT.TRACON State Reference : CA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 8000 Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Small Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Flight Phase : Descent Route In Use : Vectors Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Facility : SCT.TRACON Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Approach Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1465955 Human Factors : Time Pressure Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Excursion From Assigned Altitude Anomaly.Deviation - Track / Heading : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1
Training in progress. Aircraft was on arrival into SNA at 080. We issued a descend clearance to 060 and speed of 190kts. Aircraft read back "60 to a 190". Aircraft then turned to a 190 heading directly into an MVA of 079 descending out of 080. The proximity of the boundary line to the arrival was less than I mile, given us not time to fix the situation until it was too late. We observed the turn and issued a stop descend, low altitude alert, and climb back to 080 immediately. Be more vigilant in verifying the correct read back when doubt occurs because of the proximity of the higher MVA. Synopsis SoCal TRACON Controller reported a bad read back from a pilot which caused an instantaneous airspace violation.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : All.TRACON State Reference : AK Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 5000 Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : All Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Dash 8 Series Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Vectors Airspace.CIass E : All Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.TRACON : All Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Initial Approach Aircraft : 3 Reference : Z ATC / Advisory.TRACON : All Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use.STAR : NEELL5 Person
Reference : I Location Of Person.FaciIity : All. TRACON Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Approach Function.Air Traffic Control : Handoff / Assist Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Developmental ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1465288 Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Training / Qualification Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Track / Heading : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 It was a busy training session. I was training on south radar and south hand off combined. We had an unusual flight schedule due to fly-bys to Runway 7R. I was instructed to vector all of our traffic to Runway 7L, except for the Runway 7R aircraft. After the fly-by was completed, tower still didn't want any aircraft to go to Runway 7R. Aircraft X entered our airspace direct to ANC VOR at 050. I told Aircraft X to expect Runway 7L. When he reached an appropriate place to turn upwind, I gave Aircraft X a 070 heading to parallel Aircraft Y that was on downwind. I started getting busy, intending to turn Aircraft X to a 340 heading to the downwind about 5 miles in trail of Aircraft Y I had Aircraft Z that was on the NEELL5 arrival that was in conflict with Aircraft Y so I was watching that and listening to final radar to see if he had turned Aircraft Y to base. I then shipped Aircraft Z to final and continued my scan. I saw Aircraft X about I mile from the 6,000 feet MVA. I immediately turned Aircraft X left to a 350 heading and pulled up my EOVM [emergency obstruction video map]. Aircraft X was over the water and not near any terrain. I saw Aircraft X continue straight after acknowledging the heading so I verified that the aircraft had the terrain in sight. He answered affirmatively and was instructed to maintain his own terrain and obstruction clearance. He was in the 6,000 feet MVA for a total of about 4 flying miles and remained over the water the entire time. During my debrief, my On the Job Training Instructor said that I had caught the aircraft in time and corrected it before it was a factor. I was notified by a supervisor, that the region was made aware of it and called the front office. The front office watched and listened to the entire thing and made a determination that separation from terrain was lost. I recommend that the MVA's change around the ANC area. There are MVA's over the water (sea level) that are 060-080 feet which is ridiculous. I know the terrain makes it difficult to establish consistent MVA's but our airspace is cramped and too small as it is, now we are not utilizing it in a way to help move airplanes. Synopsis
All TRACON Controller reported vectoring an aircraft below the Minimum Vectoring Altitude.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZSE.ARTCC State Reference : WA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 12500 Environment Light : Dusk Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZSE Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Dash 8-400 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Descent Route In Use : Vectors Airspace.CIass E : ZSE Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.FaciIity : ZSE.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Other / Unknown Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Developmental ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1465270 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Distraction Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Facility : ZSE.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Enroute Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Developmental ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1465274 Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Human Factors : Distraction Training / Qualification Human Factors : Human Factors : Situational Awareness Breakdown.Party1 : ATC Communication Breakdown. Party2 : Flight Crew Communication
Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Excursion From Assigned Altitude Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Detector.Automation : Air Traffic Control Detector.Automation : Aircraft Terrain Warning Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 There were aircraft sequenced near Glacier Peak and the R-side told the front one, the one that descended below the MIA (Minimum IFR Altitude), to fly a heading and descend and maintain 13000 ft. The read back was covered by our paired freq and the R-side said something along the lines of "read back blocked, try again". I don't recall what the pilot read back but he must have missed the altitude because he made the turn and descended below the Glacier Peak MIA. The R-side immediately issued a low altitude alert once we saw the MSAW (Minimum Safe Altitude Warning) flashing and the aircraft climbed to 13000 ft. I should have suggested to split the sector earlier because we had a few instances of the paired frequencies stepping on each other. Narrative: 2 I was training on 01/31 combined during a period of metering. The overall complexity wasn't particularly challenging, but the frequency congestion was very, very high. I was metering several aircraft on the GLASR Arrival, with a pair of aircraft at the back of the sequence. In the midst of a huge amount of frequency congestion, several aircraft were keying up at once on different transmitters (up to four airplanes talking at once in different parts of the sector and not hearing each other). I had Aircraft X turned to a 250 heading in the vicinity of Glacier Peak (Minimum IFR Altitude is 126). I instructed the pilot to descend to 130 and heard him read back 130. I then moved on to other things. Moments later, the MSAW (Minimum Safe Altitude Warning) alert activated, showing the aircraft below the MIA. I issued a safety alert to pilot and he climbed back up to 13000 ft. If I had asked for the sectors to be split, that would've probably prevented the issue from happening because the frequency congestion would've been reduced. Synopsis Seattle Center Controllers reported an aircraft descended below the cleared altitude as well as the Minimum IFR Altitude.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : BOS.Airport State Reference : MA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 1700 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility : Rain Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 2000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : A90 Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Light Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turboprop Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Final Approach Route In Use : Vectors Airspace.Class B : BOS Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (AT P) Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 15750 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 200 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 2500 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1465182 Human Factors : Human-Machine Interface Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Deviation Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Excursion From Assigned Altitude - Procedural : Published Material / Policy
Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Returned To Clearance Result.Flight Crew : FLC complied w / Automation / Advisory Result.Flight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 We setup and briefed the copilot's approach to RNAV 4L into Boston Logan airport. Leveled off at final approach intercept altitude using the autopilot. Set next altitude in altitude preselect. On final approach, we entered VMC conditions the copilot looked at the GPS to verify our position related to the FAF. I was looking outside for traffic as we were VMC. He believed to be over the FAF and began to descend. ATC issued a low altitude alert and we immediately leveled off. ATC asked if we had the runway and traffic to follow in sight to which we replied, yes we did. ATC then cleared us for the visual approach which continued without incident. Synopsis Air carrier Captain reported an excursion from cleared altitude resulting in a low altitude warning. The crew corrected the deviation and landed without incident.
