ASRS Database Report Set Emergency Medical Service Incidents Report Set Description.. ....A sampling of reports concerning Emergency Medical Service (EMS) incidents. Update Number. 19.0 Date of Update .....................................................November 30, 2017 Number of Records in Report Set........................50 Number ofNew Records in Report Set ...............17 Type of Records in Report Set.. ......For each update, new records received at ASRS will displace a like number of the oldest records in the Report Set, with the objective of providing the fifty most recent relevant ASRS Database records. Records within this Report Set have been screened to assure their relevance to the topic.
National Aeronautics and Space Administration Ames Research Center Moffett Field, CA 94035-1000 TH: 262-7 MEMORANDUM FOR: Recipients of Aviation Safety Reporting System Data SUBJECT: Data Derived from ASRS Reports The attached material is furnished pursuant to a request for data from the NASA Aviation Safety Reporting System (ASRS). Recipients of this material are reminded when evaluating these data of the following points. ASRS reports are submitted voluntarily. The existence in the ASRS database of reports concerning a specific topic cannot, therefore, be used to infer the prevalence of that problem within the National Airspace System. Information contained in reports submitted to ASRS may be amplified by further contact with the individual who submitted them, but the information provided by the reporter is not investigated further. Such information represents the perspective of the specific individual who is describing their experience and perception of a safety related event. After preliminary processing, all ASRS reports are de-identified and the identity of the individual who submitted the report is permanently eliminated. All ASRS report processing systems are designed to protect identifying information submitted by reporters; including names, company affiliations, and specific times of incident occurrence. After a report has been de-identified, any verification of information submitted to ASRS would be limited. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration and its ASRS current contractor, Booz Allen Hamilton, specifically disclaim any responsibility for any interpretation which may be made by others of any material or data furnished by NASA in response to queries of the ASRS database and related materials. Linda J. Connell, Director NASA Aviation Safety Reporting System
CAVEAT REGARDING USE OF ASRS DATA Certain caveats apply to the use of ASRS data. All ASRS reports are voluntarily submitted, and thus cannot be considered a measured random sample of the full population of like events. For example, we receive several thousand altitude deviation reports each year. This number may comprise over half of all the altitude deviations that occur, or it may be just a small fraction of total occurrences. Moreover, not all pilots, controllers, mechanics, flight attendants, dispatchers or other participants in the aviation system are equally aware of the ASRS or may be equally willing to report. Thus, the data can reflect reporting biases. These biases, which are not fully known or measurable, may influence ASRS information. A safety problem such as near midair collisions (NMACs) may appear to be more highly concentrated in area "A" than area "B" simply because the airmen who operate in area "A" are more aware of the ASRS program and more inclined to report should an NMAC occur. Any type of subjective, voluntary reporting will have these limitations related to quantitative statistical analysis. One thing that can be Imown from ASRS data is that the number of reports received concerning specific event types represents the lower measure of the true number of such events that are occurring. For example, if ASRS receives 881 reports of track deviations in 2010 (this number is purely hypothetical), then it can be known with some certainty that at least 881 such events have occurred in 2010. With these statistical limitations m mind, we believe that the real power of ASRS data is the qualitative information contained in report narratives. The pilots, controllers, and others who report tell us about aviation safety incidents and situations in detail — explaining what happened, and more importantly, why it happened. Using report narratives effectively requires an extra measure of study, but the knowledge derived is well worth the added effort.
Report Synopses
ACN:1482595 (lof50) Synopsis Helicopter pilot reported a NMAC with a UAV shortly after takeoff from a hospital. ACN:1479349 (20f50) Synopsis BE200 pilot reported landing after unsuccessful attempts to fully extend the gear resulting in left landing gear collapse on landing. ACN: 1477762 (30f50) Synopsis Pilot of a turbojet reported issues with tower managing aircraft separation at an airport with multiple closures of taxiways and one runway. ACN: 1467662 (40f50) Synopsis ZDV Controller reported the DOI TRACON Controller would not allow an expedited routing for a Medevac Lifeguard aircraft. ACN•. 1466557 (50f50) Synopsis ZOB Center Controller reported having to go into no notice holding and the problems that followed. ACN: 1465594 (60f50) Synopsis King Air 90 pilot reported deviating without clearance for a thunderstorm that suddenly appeared on the nose during transition from IMC to VMC. XM weather and the aircraft radar did not show the buildup. ACN•. 1461306 (70f50) Synopsis EC135 helicopter pilot reported entering IMC on a return to base from a transport flight, requested assistance from ATC, and was able to descend on an RNAV approach to VMC and landed successfully. ACN•. 1453177 (80f50) Synopsis
Helicopter pilot reported that a patient, possibly injured while cooking methamphetamine, may not have been properly decontaminated prior to transport. ACN: 1452718 (90f50) Synopsis Maintenance Technician reported an AS355 helicopter airspeed indicator was replaced with an incorrect unit. The original faulty indicator was reinstalled and the aircraft returned to service without documentation. ACN: 1451748 (100f50) Synopsis AS-365 Captain reported contact with a van on landing at a hospital helipad. ACN: 1448460 (11 of50) Synopsis Helicopter pilot reported a NMAC with an airliner in the vicinity of MLI airport. ACN: 1445516 (120f50) Synopsis LR-35 Captain reported displeasure with the way his First Officer managed his duties during arrival. The result was a missed crossing restriction at a higher than cleared speed. ACN: 1440232 (130f50) Synopsis SLC Local Controller reported a strong wind shift caused go-arounds of two aircraft into conflicting courses. ACN: 1439512 (140f50) Synopsis Helicopter Captain reported fuel quantity failures on a multi-leg patient flight which was later determined by Maintenance to be caused by contaminated fuel. ACN: 1433814 (150f50) Synopsis Helicopter pilot reported that Maintenance personnel advised him to immediately take the aircraft out of service due to time sensitive parts that may have been overflown. ACN: 1431247 (160f50)
Synopsis Air Ambulance pilot reported being chastised by a supervisor for canceling a patient flight enroute due to weather. He felt this pressure was directly in contradiction with the company policy of making conservative calls. ACN•. 1428314 (170f50) Synopsis Air taxi Captain reported that on takeoff from ZZZ when it was snowing he noticed a snow plow at the departure end Of the runway. ACN•. 1425113 (180f50) Synopsis ZBW Controllers reported that an aircraft was descended below the Minimum IFR Altitude in error to get it below clouds to see the airport. ACN: 1425045 (190f50) Synopsis Air ambulance helicopter pilot reported a failure to complete the flight risk assessment process due to iPad communication problems in a rural area. ACN: 1421777 Synopsis ZLA Controller and helicopter pilot reported of incorrect information which led to an airspace deviation. The Controller had advised the pilot that the restricted airspace was inactive, approved the flight through the airspace when the airspace was actually active. ACN: 1421137 (21 Synopsis Helicopter pilot reported encountering icing conditions and landed at the nearest airport. ACN: 1408366 Synopsis A TRACON Controller reported a departing aircraft in conflict with an overflight helicopter they were working. ACN: 1405035 (23 of50) Synopsis EC-130 pilot reported attempting to set down on a dolly with a tailwind, but hit a skid on the dolly and pulled the collective to ascend. Sensing what the pilot thought could be
dynamic rollover developing, he landed the helicopter. It was determined that a skid had caught on the dolly. ACN: 1399837(240f50) Synopsis Helicopter Captain reported encountering IMC conditions during a night VFR ambulance flight. Pilot reported a turn to return to VMC and mentioned that wearing Night Vision Goggles can make it difficult to detect reduced visibility conditions. ACN: 1398441 (250f50) Synopsis A Maintenance Technician reported that during track and balance on a EC-135 helicopter, a main rotor blade was needed. They upgraded the existing blade per a Service Bulletin. ACN: 1396857(260f50) Synopsis PA28R pilot reported a NMAC with a medical helicopter while setting up for a flight maneuver. ACN: 1396205 (270f50) Synopsis Air taxi Captain reported experiencing a NMAC with a C172 on approach to the non- Towered AAO airport. ACN: 1392986 (280f50) Synopsis ZLC Controller reported observing an aircraft at 10,000 feet in a MVA area designated 11,000 feet. ACN•. 1390677 Synopsis Air carrier flight crew described the confusion resulting from the First Officer mistakenly confirming aircraft established on a VOR radial, instead stating the aircraft heading which confused ATC. ACN•. 1381828 (300f50) Synopsis A helicopter pilot reported difficulty maintaining the FAR required altitude above terrain due to a lowering weather ceiling and rising terrain.
ACN:1375426 (31 of50) Synopsis C90 Captain reported being awakened from sleep to fly a medevac flight but not comprehending the assignment due to fatigue. When informed that the flight is ready to depart he quickly jumped in the aircraft without checking NOTAMs. After landing he learned that the airport was closed for runway resurfacing. ACN: 1372997 (320f50) Synopsis Air ambulance flight crew landing at RLD reported a near collision with another aircraft taking off on an intersecting runway. The other aircraft reportedly was not communicating on CT AF frequency. ACN: 1368320 (330f50) Synopsis An Air Traffic Controller Trainee reported failing to take sufficient action to keep a VFR aircraft away from an IFR aircraft executing an approach to an airport. The Trainee Controller mistakenly believed he could not vector the VFR aircraft below the MVA. ACN: 1364396 (340f50) Synopsis CHS Tower Controller reported of a problem with traffic into the airport. The pattern traffic was working until the reporter was given a point out on a Lifeguard aircraft which caused the pattern to be disrupted and caused a wake turbulence problem. ACN: 1361710 (350f50) Synopsis Medevac helicopter pilot reported being advised of a UAV which was operating in the vicinity of his proposed flight path. This information caused him to be distracted which resulted in his non-compliance with company risk assessment procedures. ACN: 1359784 (360f50) Synopsis An EMS helicopter pilot reported hearing an iPad notification sound which he thought indicated Dispatch's mission approval after his risk assessment. In fact, Dispatch wanted to discuss weather. A distinctive Dispatch approval notification "ding" was discussed as a solution. ACN: 1356741 (370f50) Synopsis
An EC-135 EMS pilot landed for patient pickup, but because the patient had expired, the flight returned to base. The pilot started his takeoff with an engine in idle, but landed immediately, returned the engine to fly and departed. Upon arrival he discovered a CAD FADEC #1 "ENGINE EXCEED" alert so the aircraft was removed from service. ACN: 1354660 (380f50) Synopsis Several ATC Controllers reported that an aircraft was allowed to get less than the required distance from an active ATC Assigned Airspace. A Controller had used incorrect procedures to allow the aircraft to proceed toward the airspace. ACN: 1351591 (390f50) Synopsis ZLA Controller and two flight crews describe a serious airborne conflict which developed after an air taxi inexplicably climbed from their assigned FL270 into an air carrier at FL280. The aircraft at their closest were 100 feet vertically and about I mile horizontally. ACN: 1350521 (400f50) Synopsis EC135 medevac Pilot reported encountering unannounced jumpers in the air on arrival to an uncontrolled airport. ACN: 1350154 (41 of50) Synopsis During scheduled maintenance on a Helicopter ECD-EC135 a mechanic safety wired an 02 bottle manual shutoff valve in the closed position when it should have been in the open position. ACN: 1348316 (420f50) Synopsis The Captain of a medevac helicopter flight reported that an external inspection access door opened in flight and struck the rotor blades. The flight landed safely and there were no injuries reported. ACN: 1345784 (430f50) Synopsis MBB BK-117 pilot reported they had a GEN OVHT caution light which required a shutdown of the number one engine. Successful landing was made at an airport. ACN: 1343602 (440f50)
Synopsis AW-139 helicopter pilot reported an NMAC when they took off without clearance. ACN: 1343584 (450f50) Synopsis BH206 pilot reported an NMAC on final to a hospital helicopter pad. ACN: 1341241 (460f50) Synopsis C182 pilot reported being admonished by the SMO Tower Controller for crossing CULVE below 1120 feet during the VOR Approach to SMO in VMC. The VOR Approach is a circle to land only approach with an MDA of 680 feet. ACN: 1339538 (470f50) Synopsis Helicopter pilot reported a loss of GPS signal on both Garmin units during departure from a hospital. The outage lasted 10 seconds on the G530 and three to four minutes on the G430. ACN: 1330540 (480f50) Synopsis CE560 flight crew experienced a strong rolling tendency and aileron trim binding during initial climb then the controls are passed to the PIC in the right seat. The crew elects to return to the departure airport and the PIC is able to adjust the aileron trim to neutralize the rolling tendency prior to landing. ACN: 1329046 (490f50) Synopsis HWD Tower Controller reported of Class Delta airspace violation. The Controller working the Approach Control position was called by HWD Tower Controller and asked about the violating aircraft. Converging traffic was being worked by the Tower Controller. Overlying TRACON Controller never asked for a point out or advised that visual separation was being used. ACN: 1327145 (500f50) Synopsis FXE Tower Controller reported a recurring problem with coyotes. An aircraft was issued a go-around due to a coyote on the runway. A landing aircraft reported almost hitting a coyote on the runway.
Report Narratives
Time / Day Date : 201709 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.SingIe Value : 100 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Helicopter Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Mission : Ambulance Flight Phase : Climb Airspace.Class G : ZZZ Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Operating Under FAR Part.Other Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass G : ZZZ Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.FIight Crew : Rotorcraft ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly Conflict : NMAC Detector. Person : Flight Crew 1482595
Miss Distance.HorizontaI : O Miss Distance.VerticaI : 25 When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Near midair [with] a small drone flying one block east of the hospital. Our aircraft was on initial climb out at approximately 65 knots and was climbing from helipad to 2200 MSC. Elevation [at] time of near miss was probably 100-150 feet above helipad which is approximately 1250 MSL. The primary departure path from this helipad is standardized due to close noise sensitive areas and must be protected from drone activities and intrusions due to high flight volume around the hospital. We had to look up through the rotors to keep it in sight as it passed directly over the aircraft by about 25-50 feet. We saw it at the last second and had no time to react. Ground all private drones. They are going to cause a mishap with a manned aircraft, the regulations for their operation do not provide helicopters with a margin of safety that is acceptable to flight crews who cannot see them because they are too small. The drones also do not have lights or markings that aid in their visual acquisition. They also do not register on TCAS or other radar systems. Alternately, "no drone" fly zones within I NM of all hospital helipads. Synopsis Helicopter pilot reported a NMAC with a UAV shortly after takeoff from a hospital.
Time / Day Date : 201709 Local Time Of Day : 0001-0600 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Night Ceiling.SingIe Value : 11000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi 10 Make Model Name : Super King Air 200 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Ambulance Flight Phase : Landing Route In Use : Direct Component Aircraft Component : Main Gear Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Function.FIight Attendant : Other / Unknown Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 8500 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 150 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 1000 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1479349 Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Human-Machine Interface Human Factors : Confusion
Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Flight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Result.Aircraft : Aircraft Damaged Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Equipment / Tooling Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 After completing a normal flight within normal operating procedures, during the visual approach all indications were "NORMAL": Landing gear 3 GREEN/NO RED, No gear warning horn. Flaps FULL. Upon a normal landing in ZZZ on Runway XX, both mains touched ground but before the nose wheel came down I noticed the aircraft's left side settle more than normal as if a gust pushed it down, I heard the gear horn and proceeded to execute a go around. While executing the go around maneuver I noted that the flaps would not retract when selected and the gear showed an "unsafe light" in the handle when retracted. I [advised] ATC and asked for holding instructions. I entered a holding pattern within close proximity to the airport to diagnose the situation. The flaps were stuck in the FULL DOWN position and gear horn would not silence. I reviewed the Landing Gear abnormal/emergency procedures then attempted a normal gear extension (electrically with gear handle before attempting a manual extension) which only was able to extend the nose gear. I then completed the checklist for the manual gear extension procedure and was only able to get green lights on the nose and Right main. From the execution of the go around with Flaps stuck in the FULL DOWN position the GEAR WARNING horn was audible and would not silence: which is a normal function of the gear system. I then executed a low approach so ground personnel could inspect and see if the left main was in fact down or still in the wheel well. After the low approach no one was able to see anything due to the darkness from the ground, so I was cleared to land on Runway XX and I did a second low approach and was told by ground personal that the left gear looked to be down so I made a visual pattern to land back on Runway XX. I communicated with the medics on board regarding the potential gear issue and briefed them on emergency landing procedures. As soon as I touched down the left main landing gear collapsed. On landing rollout I maintained center line as best as I could and shut both engines down and gang barred the master/electrical switches. We performed an uneventful egress through the aft air stair door. Synopsis BE200 pilot reported landing after unsuccessful attempts to fully extend the gear resulting in left landing gear collapse on landing.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : BKL.Airport State Reference : OH Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : BKL Aircraft Operator : Corporate Make Model Name : Small Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Taxi Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Mission : Ambulance Flight Phase : Taxi Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Corporate Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1477762 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events
Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Ground Conflict, Less Severe Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : Taxi Result.FIight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airport Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 BKL Airport - Conditions were VMC, runway in use was 24R. Runway 24L was NOTAM'd closed. There was several other NOTAM'd taxiway closures. Called BKL Ground for taxi clearance and was cleared to taxi from on Golf Taxiway to Bravo Taxiway cross Runway 24L on Bravo hold short of 24R. I taxied as instructed. I heard Aircraft Y call for taxi clearance on frequency after me and believe they were given a similar taxi clearance, except they were supposed to hold short of Runway 24L on Bravo Taxiway. After that transmission I believe I was crossing Runway 24L and had switched to Tower frequency which was manned by the same Ground Controller too. I believe I heard BKL Tower clear an airplane to land Runway 24R. I think Tower talked to the Aircraft Y again. Tower then talked to me about back expediting our taxiing on Runway 24R to Hotel Taxiway to allow for Aircraft Y to get out ahead of me. I was instructed to still hold short of Runway 24R. I believe another airplane called Tower asking for taxiing instructions I believe, I do not remember the specifics. Tower then cleared me to back taxi on Runway 24R to Hotel intersection and to expedite the taxi. I remember completing a quick scan of the runway and it looked clear. Thinking back now, the angle of the taxiway to the runway was about 45 degrees due to the configuration of my aircrafts front A pillar position it might have been of contributing factor to me not seeing the airplane on short final until I was actually turning onto Runway 24R. The airplane radioed that it was executing a go around, Tower then also instructed the airplane to execute a go around too. Tower then apologized and said he would work in the airplane to land after I had completed my back taxi on Runway 24R. I cleared Runway 24R at Hotel intersection. The airplane landed shortly after me on runway 24R and taxied off. Tower then cleared the aircraft Y to back taxi runway 24R from intersection Bravo. I held short of Runway 24R on Hotel taxiway. Tower cleared the Aircraft Y for takeoff Runway 24R at the Foxtrot intersection. I was cleared for takeoff Runway 24R after several minute wait for IFR separation for Approach Control. Nothing further was said to me about the go around incident. Synopsis Pilot Of a turbojet reported issues with tower managing aircraft separation at an airport with multiple closures of taxiways and one runway.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZDV.ARTCC State Reference : CO Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 21000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZDV Make Model Name : Small Transport Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Ambulance Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Direct Airspace.CIass A : ZDV Person Reference : I Location Of Person.FaciIity : ZDV.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Enroute Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control.Time Certified In Pos 1 (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1467662 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types : 10.5 Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.General : Flight Cancelled / Delayed Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Company Policy Narrative: 1 A Medevac aircraft was flying, initially on a direct route, level at 21,000 feet. Because of weather along the route of flight, the Radar controller rerouted Aircraft X direct [to destination]. I called the TRACON at least 15 minutes prior to the aircraft estimated at the
TRACON boundary to coordinate this priority routing at 16,000 feet. The controller denied my request without stating a reason or issuing an alternative (such as a higher altitude for possible traffic or a request for control). After a pause, I asked for a suggestion as to how to get the Medevac routing to [their destination]. The controller's response was to take the aircraft north or south over the arrival routing, which we were forced to do. We turned the aircraft to the northeast and issued the STAR. This routing added many miles and several minutes to the aircraft's flight. As Aircraft X approached our boundary with Denver Approach, only one aircraft departed out the west departure gate. Only one aircraft could have been a factor with the inbound medevac. Denying some sort of priority to a medevac flight is inconceivable! Especially in an instance of extremely low traffic flow and complexity. Every single controller at the TRACON should be capable of providing priority services and separation to aircraft requesting it, especially when it could involve someone's health. My recommendation is that the controllers at the TRACON be held accountable for their actions or inactions. Rerouting a Medevac as in this instance (and this is certainly not the first time this has occurred) does not meet our requirement of expeditious handling of aircraft. A possible tool to prevent unnecessary rerouting of Medevac aircraft would be to add/change the Letter Of Agreement with Denver Approach. Medevac flights and other aircraft requesting priority (such as emergencies) should not need T RACON approval, but coordinated in advance. If the receiving controller cannot take an aircraft on requested routing, then an alternate routing or altitude should be suggested/coordinated/assigned that does not take the aircraft on an extreme course change away from their destination airport. Synopsis ZDV Controller reported the DOI TRACON Controller would not allow an expedited routing for a Medevac Lifeguard aircraft.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZOB.ARTCC State Reference : OH Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 29000 Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZOB Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Large Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass A : ZOB Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory Center : ZOB Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Large Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass A : ZOB Aircraft : 3 Reference : Z ATC / Advisory Center : ZOB Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Large Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.Class A : ZOB Aircraft : 4
Reference : A ATC / Advisory Center : ZOB Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Light Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Ambulance Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Vectors Airspace.CIass A : ZOB Aircraft : 5 Reference : B ATC / Advisory.Center : ZOB Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Large Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Vectors Airspace.CIass A : ZOB Person Reference : I Location Of Person.FaciIity : ZOB.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Enroute Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos 1 (yrs) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1466557 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Distraction Communication Breakdown. Partyl : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Air Traffic Control : Separated Traffic Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 Human Factors Procedure The Blue Ridge Controller called and informed me I was shutoff for BWI/IAD/DCA arrivals and that TMU said I should have been rerouting them. I had no knowledge of this and asked my Supervisor for clarification. My Supervisor asked TMU. TMU informed my Supervisor BWI/IAD/DCA had been shutoff. My Supervisor and I were both shocked to learn of this information from the receiving sector without prior notice from TMU. I was extremely dismayed at the obvious breakdown in communication. I immediately had trepidation about what to do with all my BWI/IAD/DCA arrivals. Meanwhile, Aircraft X and Aircraft Y, six miles in trail, were in pending hand off status to the Blue Ridge Sector. Additionally, Aircraft Z was approximately five minutes in trail. All three were BWI arrivals. My panic was relieved when the Blue Ridge Controller said he would accept Aircraft X and Aircraft Y. Then, having to ignore shout line calls from adjacent sectors, my focus shifted to Aircraft Z, at which time I informed the pilot to slow and plan for holding or a possible reroute. After conferring with my Supervisor about how this happened and how I would proceed, I was able to reestablish my scan and get back to other priorities like point outs, hand offs, and coordination. This period of inattention and distraction could've been avoided. During the fray I switched Aircraft A communications without a hand off, which could've lead to an airspace violation. And, I delayed about four minutes to answer an Appleton Sector point out on Aircraft B, causing the aircraft to fly into moderate precipitation and potentially endangering the passengers and crew. After more coordination with the Blue Ridge Controller, they accepted Aircraft Z. Aircraft X, Aircraft Y and Aircraft Z all exited my airspace via LUNDY, the normal route, but were quickly vectored by the Blue Ridge Controller. I imagine this created extra workload for the Blue Ridge Controller and unnecessarily put all three aircraft in a proximity to weather conditions that were undesirable. There was a failure to provide the necessary service to all the flights impacted: Aircraft X, Aircraft Y, Aircraft Z, Aircraft A and Aircraft B. Despite low volume, a highly complex and dangerous situation was created, which was unnecessary and avoidable. I believe there was a breakdown in the prompt communication of holding/rerouting/route- shutoff. Known weather was affecting the area for hours leading to this event. The potential for holding/rerouting/shutoff should have been anticipated. I recommend contacting the sector and/or area supervisor immediately with specific call signs of which aircraft will be accepted, and which will have to hold. The same goes for when a reroute is necessary, even if a route hasn't been established yet; at least give the controller/sector team as much time as possible to prepare. This notification will also aid the supervisor in adding staffing resources quicker. Synopsis ZOB Center Controller reported having to go into no notice holding and the problems that followed.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 12000 Environment Flight Conditions : Mixed Weather Elements / Visibility : Thunderstorm Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : 10 Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 5000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : King Air C90 E90 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Ambulance Nav In Use : GPS Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.Class E : ZZZ Component Aircraft Component : Weather Radar Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 2700 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 35 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 80 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1465594 Human Factors : Situational Awareness
Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Track / Heading : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Weather Narrative: 1 The event occurred during cruise on a medical transport. Flight conditions were in and out small storm buildups and intermittent IMC/VMC. Upon exiting an area of IMC a very large buildup/thunderstorm appeared in front of me in very close proximity. I had no time available to request deviation from my course to avoid the hazard. I Immediately turned approximately 30 degrees right of course to avoid the possible storm cell. Contributing to this was the XM weather and radar did not accurately depict what I was about to fly into. Had I selected a different altitude I may have been able to see and avoid the area much earlier. My inaction created a situation where I had to deviate from my assigned route. Synopsis King Air 90 pilot reported deviating without clearance for a thunderstorm that suddenly appeared on the nose during transition from IMC to VMC. XM weather and the aircraft radar did not show the buildup.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Environment Flight Conditions : Marginal Light : Dusk Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : EC135 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Ambulance Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass E : ZZZ Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Rotorcraft Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1461306 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : VFR In IMC Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 While enroute back to base from an interfacility transport the crew decision was to abort the flight and return to airport. While executing the 180 degree left turn, aircraft began to enter a low cloud along the ridge line. Pilot decided that continuing the turn could possibly result in an IMC encounter while in a left hand bank. Prior to entering obscuration pilot leveled the aircraft and accepted the IMC event. Pilot announced IMC to crew and proceeded with the IMC emergency procedures for IMC event. Medic in left seat assisted pilot with the IMC cards and approach plates. Upon reaching a VFR on top altitude pilot elected to level off and be prepared to set up for the RNAV approach to base airport. During this time, Pilot, once aircraft control was well established (NON IFR aircraft/No Auto Pilot or HELISAS or MFDs), attempted contact with ATC. Pilot was unable to clearly receive ATC so pilot made call in the blind. Shortly after Pilot was able to receive ATC. Aircraft was configured for IFR flight and approach to base selected and activated. Pilot was following GPS guidance for the RNAV approach about the same time ATC provided heading and other clearance aircraft entered VMC conditions in vicinity of airport. Pilot notified ATC of encountering VMC conditions, and descended within VMC and flew VFR to airport. Upon landing crew debriefed the event and discussed anything we could have done better or improved upon as well as those things we did well. Operations was aware at all times of the status of the flight. Make the decision to abort as early as possible, do not hesitate. Synopsis EC135 helicopter pilot reported entering IMC on a return to base from a transport flight, requested assistance from ATC, and was able to descend on an RNAV approach to VMC and landed successfully.
Time / Day Date : 201705 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Helicopter Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Ambulance Flight Phase : Cruise Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.Flight Crew : Captain Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1453177 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Training / Qualification Events Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Hazardous Material Violation Detector. Person : Flight Crew Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : In-flight Result.General : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 During patient transport, hospital staff advised crew that patient had been burned in a butane explosion and was possibly cooking methamphetamine. I was advised by the medical crew that the patient was decontaminated by hospital staff. After flight, aircraft, equipment and personnel were further decontaminated. At no time did the crew smell or believe contaminant was still present. The decontamination after the flight was done out of
an exercise of caution and not [because] of any chemical discovery. After the flight, during a clinical review of the medical patient record, the Medical Director further interviewed the crew and determined that a complete decontamination was most likely not completed. This leads me to believe that there is a possibility that Hazardous Material may have been on the patient during transport. Synopsis Helicopter pilot reported that a patient, possibly Injured while cooking methamphetamine, may not have been properly decontaminated prior to transport.
Time / Day Date : 201705 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : AS 355 Twinstar Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Mission : Ambulance Flight Phase : Parked Maintenance Status. Maintenance Deferred : Y Maintenance Status. Records Complete : N Maintenance Status. Released For Service : Y Maintenance Status. Required / Correct Doc On Board : N Maintenance Status. Maintenance Type : Unscheduled Maintenance Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved : Testing Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved : Inspection Component Aircraft Component : Airspeed Indicator Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : I Location Of Person : Hangar / Base Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.Maintenance : Lead Technician Qualification.Maintenance : Inspection Authority Experience.Maintenance.Lead Technician : 20 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1452718 Human Factors : Troubleshooting Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly. Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Maintenance Anomaly. Deviation - Procedural : FAR
Detector. Person : Maintenance When Detected : Routine Inspection Result.General : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Incorrect / Not Installed / Unavailable Part Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 During a 91.411/.413 test, it was found the aircraft airspeed indicator (ASI) was faulty with a major case leak. A technician took a repaired ASI unit from the parts room and installed it. The aircraft was then put back in service with no work order or log entry of the instrument change. Later that day, a pilot informed me that the airspeed range markings were incorrect. I verified this and removed the aircraft from service. Our chief pilot, Director of Maintenance (DOM) and operations were informed that the aircraft was out of service. A replacement part was then ordered by the DOM. The aircraft remained out of service for the duration of the week. Upon my return [8 days later], I noticed the aircraft's flight record container was missing from the maintenance shop. I then found the airspeed indicator with the wrong range markings on a technician's tool box. The old faulty airspeed indicator had been reinstalled and the aircraft was back in service. There was no work order or log entry for any of the above maintenance including any post installation system checks. The aircraft is currently in service with a faulty airspeed indicator. This action does not follow procedures in the repair station manual for proper return to service record completion, replacement of faulty components and does not comply with established FAR part 43 and manufactures system leakage limits. The aircraft is a light twin helicopter and is used as a part 135 passenger transport/air ambulance. Management seems indifferent to the possibility of a certificate suspension and fines due to improper service and maintenance records. Synopsis Maintenance Technician reported an AS355 helicopter airspeed indicator was replaced with an incorrect unit. The original faulty indicator was reinstalled and the aircraft returned to service without documentation.
Time / Day Date : 201705 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Altitude.AGL.SingIe Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : Marginal Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 1800 Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : SA 365 Dauphin 2 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : None Mission : Ambulance Flight Phase : Landing Airspace.CIass G : ZZZ Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1451748 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Vehicle Detector. Person : Other Person When Detected. Other Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 We arrived prior to the required show time and set up for our high recon, and during that high recon I noted a white van blocking the drive to the helipad on the north end, and a white pickup truck blocking drive to helipad on the south end, additionally there is the standard large emergency generator located NW of helipad. Wind was predominantly out
of the SE, but shifting with the counter clockwise motion of the weather pattern. I continued around to set up for a steep approach from the NW to the SE to take advantage of the wind. Rate of closure was slow, and descent rate was our 200 ft FPM. From my perspective, approach was normal. At the bottom, with shifting winds and ingestion of aircraft's own rotor wash, there was the standard yaw back and forth. I finished DFL (Daily Flight Log) and started new line on DFL with all the items I could pre-fill out (weight and balance, start, pilot, and number on board as well as departure point) in case we were called out for a medical flight. I then put log book up. Meantime crew had gotten out, put wheel chalks down, and were trying to figure out what we were supposed to do. If memory serves me, we had some staff come up to ask questions about the aircraft, and I was talking to one staff member when a security guard came up, so I walked over to him and he told me something to the effect "You know you hit the van" to which I was taken aback and said something like no, I felt nothing - did I damage the van? He replied, something to the effect of we don't care about the van. This all occurred approximately 10 or 15 minutes after we had been on the ground. I told him I would look at the aircraft. I failed to mention had already done my post flight walk around and had not noted anything out of the ordinary after I finally got out of the aircraft. I immediately went back to the back of the aircraft and re looked at the tail section and the tail stinger. I noted no indication of a strike. The van was all white and, since we are predominately black, I looked at it to see if I could see any indication that I had hit it and could not note any marks that would have given me that indication. So here was my quandary, what to do next. I could see no physical evidence of a having hit the van on either the aircraft or the van. Do I call a mechanic? I kept going back to look at tail, tail stinger, wheels of aircraft, etc. I could not see anything. My thought process turned to treating like a bird strike for non-moving portions of aircraft and clearing it for RTS (Return to Service). My rationale was I felt this individual who approached may have thought it appeared that I hit the vehicle from his angle or perspective, and I did not feel during the approach, nor see any indication that there was in fact, contact. The following day, I accepted an IFR Flight. Once back, Mechanic noted lens cover for aft tail light broken on A Check. He showed me. When replacing with new cover, he noted small chip in lower right underneath portion of tail cone along with a rub mark above that. Repairs were made. Synopsis AS-365 Captain reported contact with a van on landing at a hospital helipad.
Time / Day Date : 201705 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : MI-I Airport State Reference : IL Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 500 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 10000 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : MLI Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Helicopter Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Ambulance Flight Phase : Initial Climb Route In Use : Direct Airspace.CIass C : MLI Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory. Tower : MLI Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier 10 Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Final Approach Airspace.Class C : MLI Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Rotorcraft Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine
Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 6200 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 45 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 850 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1448460 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Communication Breakdown. Partyl : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.Conflict : NMAC Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector.Automation : Aircraft RA Detector. Person : Flight Crew Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control Miss Distance.VerticaI : 300 When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 While taking off from a helipad and climbing to 400 to 500 feet AGL, I contacted Quad City Approach and received a new squawk code when the aircraft TCAS alert went off. As I was responding to Quad City Approach I saw an airliner fly above us. I was advised by Quad City the airliner passed over us by 300 feet. I estimate we were approximately 1100 to 1200 feet MSL when we had the airliner fly 300 feet above our helicopter. Radio contact with Quad City approach when taking off from the helipad is best if we can get a little altitude. It is not normally in the approach path of aircraft coming into MLI so it has never been a safety issue to contact ATC shortly after liftoff. The airliner must have been on Quad City tower frequency and I was on Quad City Approach frequency. Synopsis Helicopter pilot reported a NMAC with an airliner in the vicinity of MLI airport.
Time / Day Date : 201705 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZZZ.ARTCC State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 20000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Learjet 35 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Ambulance Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Nav In Use : GPS Flight Phase : Descent Route In Use.STAR : ZZZ Airspace.CIass A : ZZZ Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1445516 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Training / Qualification Human Factors : Troubleshooting Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly. Deviation Anomaly.Deviation Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Undershoot - Altitude : Crossing Restriction Not Met - Speed : All Types
Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Returned To Clearance Result.FIight Crew : Became Reoriented Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 We were flying the arrival into ZZZ. The weather was great at ZZZ and they were doing the ILS runway 31 R or visual runway 31L. My FO had just listened to the ATIS and had only written down that they were doing the ILS to runway 31R. The ATIS was very long and had a lot of information in it due to the construction going on at the field and he failed to get all of the information. I was listening to it as well and had heard that they were also doing the visual approach to runway 31L so I asked him why he didn't write that down. He said "Oh, I thought they were saying something else, but I couldn't understand it" and just shrugged it off. I told the FO that we would do the visual approach to runway 31L and he acknowledged that. I was flying and had the autopilot on. Throughout our flight ATC had asked us a few times if we could fly faster and we were instructed to maintain 300 knots or greater for the arrival. We had previously crossed ZZZZZ at the published altitude (FL230) and were waiting for the controller to tell us to descend for ZZZZZI. He was really busy on the radio and finally told us to cross ZZZZZI at FL 190 and 250 knots 16 miles before ZZZZZI. I started down and established my rate to meet the crossing restriction and speed. Shortly after doing so the FO proceeded to set up the ILS runway 31R into the NAV's and GPS. While doing this the normal navigation page with the DME and other pertinent flight info was not being displayed. I didn't realize what he was doing, as he didn't ask if I wanted the ILS set up, until he was messing with the GPS and I asked what he was doing. He said he was putting the ILS points into the GPS for the approach and then I asked him why and he just sat there with an "I don't know" look on his face. I reiterated that we were going to do the visual approach to runway 31 L as the weather was good for it and the runway was better for where we were going on the field. After getting him back up to speed where I thought he already was the plane started turning (following the GPS) to go to ZZZZI and I looked at the altimeter and saw we were descending through FL200 at a slower rate of descent than I had originally set and we're still as 300 knots. I quickly turned off the autopilot and deployed the spoilers to descend faster and to slow the plane down. While I was doing this (still 700' high and 280 knots) ATC told us to go to the next frequency. By the time the FO checked in with the next controller we were already at FL190 and 250 knots. Aside from the FO trying to grasp all of what had just happened, the rest of the flight was uneventful. Many factors come together to contribute to the error- I. ATC's request to fly faster and the late clearance down to the crossing/speed restriction. 2. The FO not getting all of the ATIS information and not realizing the importance of getting clarification if they don't understand something being said. 3. Miscommunication between me and the FO about what runway and approach we were using. 4. The FO's failure to inform me of what he was doing when configuring the NAV's and GPS for an approach we already discussed that we were not doing.
5. Not noticing that the plane's rate of descent had slowed down after initially setting it. 6. Letting the FO's actions distract me from flying the airplane. Ways in which I can prevent this type of error in the future- I. Tell ATC that we are unable to make the crossing/speed restriction so that we aren't rushed and have more time to get down. We could also request lower ourselves as sometimes ATC forgets about you and you should query them. 2. Stress the importance of getting all of the information and that if they don't understand something to ask the other person for help and/or clarification. 3. Not accepting an acknowledgement of something as understanding and to ask them to repeat it back to make sure that effective communication has taken place. 4. Making sure that the FO's keep the other person in the loop and that they should ask the person flying if they want an approach set up and if they may change anything before they just go ahead and do it. 5. Remembering that the plane's rate of descent slows down after initially setting it and expecting that I'll have to adjust the nose down more to maintain the desired descent rate. 6. Not allowing my attention to be diverted to actions that are not pertinent to the current task at hand and waiting for a reduced workload, more appropriate, time to address them. Synopsis LR-35 Captain reported displeasure with the way his First Officer managed his duties during arrival. The result was a missed crossing restriction at a higher than cleared speed.
Time / Day Date : 201704 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : SLC.Tower State Reference : UT Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 6000 Environment Flight Conditions : Marginal Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : SLC Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Small Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Cargo / Freight Flight Phase : Initial Climb Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.Class B : SLC Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.Tower : SLC Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Small Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turboprop Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Ambulance Flight Phase : Initial Climb Route In Use : VFR Route Airspace.CIass B : SLC Person Reference : I Location Of Person.FaciIity : SLC.Tower Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Local Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1440232 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Confusion
Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly.Deviation - Track / Heading : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Executed Go Around / Missed Approach Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Result.Air Traffic Control : Separated Traffic Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Weather Narrative: 1 Airport Airspace Structure Environment - Non Weather Related Human Factors Procedure Weather The wind had shifted to a 40 plus knot crosswind from the west and everyone was going around. With the volume of go arounds there was a lot of coordination between the Tower Controllers, Tower supervisor, and T RACON to try to figure out where to put everyone. The Supervisor advised me to have all my go arounds on a 160 heading climbing to 9000 feet. I then put Aircraft X on a 160 heading on about a 1 mile final to runway 16L as he was going around at that point. The Local Controller working runway 17 had Aircraft Y go around and I later found out they canceled their IFR to try to land Runway 32. Another aircraft's tag was on top of Aircraft X's tag and I didn't immediately observe Aircraft X drifting east toward higher MVAs (Minimum Vectoring Altitude). Aircraft Y then went around trying to land runway 32 head on towards Aircraft X. Once I saw Aircraft Y wasn't landing on Runway 32 and I saw Aircraft X had drifted east I immediately turned Aircraft X back to the west. With all of the coordination going on some things were being missed. I should have known that with the current winds a 160 heading was going to be more southeasterly. In trying to come up with a plan with the other controllers and supervisor I didn't see it right away. I initially did not know what Aircraft Y was doing when they turned back to the airport at my traffic. This weather event was forecasted and we were aware of what was going to happen but did not staff another person to act as a Cab Coordinator. That would have been really helpful. In the future I will have aircraft track the final approach course or fly their present heading initially to try to avoid them drifting in one direction. Synopsis SLC Local Controller reported a strong wind shift caused go-arounds of two aircraft into conflicting courses.
Time / Day Date : 201704 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Environment Flight Conditions : Marginal Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Helicopter Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Mission : Ambulance Flight Phase : Cruise Component Aircraft Component : Fuel Quantity-Pressure Indication Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.FIight Crew : Captain Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Training / Qualification Events 1439512 Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Equipment / Tooling Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Equipment / Tooling
Narrative: 1 My crew had started the mission via ground ambulance. I accepted the flight and needed to put on fuel prior to departing for the mission so I would have enough fuel to complete the mission. Prior to this I had [the aircraft] topped off for the flight back to base. Once landing at base, the aircraft did not fly again until Friday night when I accepted this mission. Upon accepting the mission I repositioned to the fuel farm to put on fuel. At this time I put on 51 Gallons Jet A fuel and then departed. Just over halfway into the flight I got a Master Caution indicating a Fuel Quantity Degrade and the Main fuel Tank was fluctuating by 50 to 100 KG's. At this point in the flight I was the closest to the hospital and continued to land there. When I went to turn final I received another Master Caution light indicating that I had a Fuel Quantity Failure on the Main tank and proceeded to land. Upon landing I called the on duty Mechanic and pulled out the MEL book to see if we could MEL it. The mechanic then called his supervisor and was given the go ahead to MEL the aircraft. The plan was for me to drop the patient off and then stop to top off fuel and then fly to ZZZ to have the aircraft fixed. On the patient flight my number 2 supply tank went offline about 5 min from the pad. Just before landing the number I supply tank indication also went away. I landed and dropped the patient and then flew to the fuel stop and landed. Called the Mechanic and told him what happened and then they decided to come to check the aircraft. While draining the fuel from the aircraft found water and other large debris in the fuel. The fuel was also cloudy and very brown in color. Synopsis Helicopter Captain reported fuel quantity failures on a multi-leg patient flight which was later determined by Maintenance to be caused by contaminated fuel.
Time / Day Date : 201703 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.SingIe Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Dawn Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Agusta Undifferentiated or Other Model Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Mission : Ambulance Flight Phase : Parked Maintenance Status. Maintenance Type : Unscheduled Maintenance Component Aircraft Component : Tail Rotor Drive System Aircraft Reference : X Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.FIight Crew : Captain ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1433814 Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Maintenance Detector. Person : Maintenance When Detected : Routine Inspection Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 Aircraft Procedure
Tail Rotor assembly was replaced on Aircraft X with a freshly rebuilt assy. Entry number 5 on maintenance worksheet log page entered and signed off by local mechanics. After pulling a short term due list the tail rotor IT straps indicated they had minimal time left on them. I and the day pilot both questioned the remaining time to both mechanics and was reassured that there was a glitch in software and there was adequate time remaining. The previous short term due list had hand written "CW" indicating the inspections were complied with. This was also reflected as signed off with an RII sign off, in Form XXXX in the maintenance log. We were informed that software was the issue on clearing the inspection item off of the short term due list. This was again questioned the following day by myself and pilot, we were reassured that the issue was in software. This questioning continued for three days at XA:36 1 received a call from Mr. X to immediately take the aircraft out of service. He then explained to me that there was an issue with the TT straps and the likelihood that they had been overflown. All log book paperwork and maintenance entries appeared in order and the continued reassurance by both mechanics, one the area lead mechanic, we continued to perform our duties and fly dispatched flights. To have a better maintenance tracking procedure especially when using swapped aircraft components. Synopsis Helicopter pilot reported that Maintenance personnel advised him to immediately take the aircraft out of service due to time sensitive parts that may have been overflown.
Time / Day Date : 201703 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi : Thunderstorm Make Model Name : Helicopter Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Mission : Ambulance Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.Class E : ZZZ Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.FIight Crew : Rotorcraft Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1431247 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Time Pressure Events Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.General : Flight Cancelled / Delayed Result.Flight Crew : Diverted Result.FIight Crew : Landed As Precaution Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Weather Narrative: 1
Our base is located approximately 42 miles NW of the pickup point, which made us fly there, pick up the patient and a third rider, and fly to ZZZ. The weather sensors at our location as well as at pick up point and ZZZ were reporting VFR conditions. The radar showed areas of small pockets of convective activities 40-50 miles south and west of our base but the TAF reported that those cells would not be a factor until [after our flight], so I decided we could conduct the mission safely and accepted it. We departed from our base and started flying southeast towards pick up point. We noticed there was an unusual amount of haze in the air, to the point where our visibility was diminished to about 4 to 5 miles to the SE and north. There were a few clouds at about 2000 ft in altitude, although they were reported at 2800 ft by nearby aerodromes. As we were flying, the medical crew members looked back towards the northwest, where the flight was scheduled to take us and noticed that with the setting sun the visibility was diminished even further. We estimated the visibility was down to about 2.5 to 3 miles to the NW. The crew members mentioned that we probably need to assess the weather further and not to make patient contact because it looked like we were not going to be able to make it from pick up point to ZZZ. I decided to divert the flight to the nearest airport (our home airport where we could shelter the aircraft in the event of storms or maintenance). We informed our dispatch that we were diverting and landing at the airport instead of the hospital. Upon landing we assessed the weather further and noticed that the storm cells to the south and west have developed further and they appear to be posing a threat for our flight to ZZZ by the time we departed after picking up the patient. I called our dispatch and notified them that we were going to have to abort the flight request due to the weather rapidly deteriorating. Our dispatch acknowledges and told me to hang tight at the airport and that she was going to contact our Supervisor to see if the medical crew members can take the patient by ground instead. I notified dispatch that the weather in ZZZ was not conducive for the flight but we could make it to our base before the weather turned bad without a problem. She proceeded to tell me that Supervisor, Mr. X wanted us to not take off and return to our base because "if the weather is bad enough to abort, then we couldn't takeoff and make it back to base". I explain to dispatch that the weather in ZZZ was turning bad but we could make it to our base with no issues. By this point she put me on hold and connected me via three-way with Mr. Y (on-call Supervisor) who was collocated with Mr. X our medical director. Mr. Y was simply relaying what Mr. X was telling him. Mindful that we are at our home airport and both Mr. X and Mr. Y are inside the building a few hundred feet away. As I am on the phone on a three-way call, I see both Mr. X and Mr. Y exit the building and decided to go talk to them face-to-face. Mr. X was visibly upset at the situation. I attempted to explain my rationale behind making the decision to abort to the airport and he could not "understand why is the weather bad enough to not take the call but it was good to fly back to our base". explained to him that the weather in ZZZ was turning bad and I could make it to our base with the current weather conditions. He went on to questioning my judgment call to abort the flight due to weather in the first place and furthermore questioned my ability to be able to fly back to base and continued to say "he didn't feel comfortable having his medical crew members fly back with me". This is the same person who had dispatch call another base in our program to see if "another pilot could complete the transfer" (shopping for another for weather). I told him I understood where he stands and told him that I would leave the aircraft at the airport and catch a taxi back to our base. By making us hold on the ground because he thought the weather was bad when I was explaining to him that it was not, he took operational control of the aircraft. This type of pressure is directly in contradiction with [company] policy of making conservative calls. I also feel my ability to manage risk, make the most conservative call and act as the PIC in the aircraft were questioned by a person who does not necessarily understand weather
and how it can affect any given flight. There have been other instances where pilots and medical crew members feel pressured to fly by this same person and it is to the point where I don't feel like I want to come to work and deal with situations like this. At this point in time I am feeling that Mr. X put direct pressure on the crew members to make this particular flight even though I tried to explain the reasoning behind the weather call. This type of direct and indirect pressure to fly is the type of behavior that can lead to a major accident because crew members feel that they must go on a flight just because we do not want to upset an individual who wants to micromanage every little detail within this program. Medical managers need to understand the difficult decisions aircrew members make, whether it is on the ground or in the air, due to weather or any safety issues or concern is what the crew members are trained to do and are the main reason why we get hired. To question air crew members on why they make certain decisions while in the air is something we should never have to explain if the call is legitimate. This type of pressure to fly, whether is direct or indirect is the type of behavior that can lead to a major accident and needs to be remedied [as soon as possible]. Synopsis Air Ambulance pilot reported being chastised by a supervisor for canceling a patient flight enroute due to weather. He felt this pressure was directly in contradiction with the company policy of making conservative calls.
Time / Day Date : 201702 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Environment Flight Conditions : Marginal Weather Elements / Visibility : Snow Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Ceiling.Single Value : 2300 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Light Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Ambulance Flight Phase : Takeoff Route In Use : Direct Airspace.CIass G : ZZZ Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument 1.5 Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 6600 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 65 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 1800 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1428314 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Ground Personnel Events Anomaly Conflict : Ground Conflict, Critical Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy
Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Vehicle Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 After working hard with dispatch and coordinating with a hospital, I was repositioning from ZZZ to pick up a critical patient in ZZZI to fly to ZZZ2. There was a lot of emphasis to get airborne and en route as fast as possible to meet an ETA. Taxing out it was snowing and we had 1 1/2 miles of visibility and a 2300 feet ceiling and 2 inches of light snow on the runway. After announcing that I was taxing out and later announcing on Unicom that I was taking the runway I heard no reply over Unicom/CTAF. We had blowing snow and a 6051 foot runway, after putting the throttles up and rapidly approaching VI, I saw a set of head lights from a snow plow that had just turned around at the end of the runway I made a quick call telling him to hold his position with no reply. The plow driver saw me and pulled over. He had entered the runway mid field and I could not see him due to the snow he was kicking up and the fact that the county snow plow lacked good lighting. I lifted off mid field using a soft field technique to avoid any plowed rows of snow. I accelerated and comfortably flew over the snow plow who was waiting at the end of the runway. There were no NOTAMs for snow removal and I wouldn't think they would be out plowing for such a small amount of snow. I believe after I taxied out past our hangar the plow past behind me at a 90 deg angle on a taxi way that meets the runway mid field he then headed away from me so we both had our backs to each other. I did not want to become contaminated with snow on the wings so emphases was to go. Looking down the runway I thought I saw a set of tire tracks on the runway from the night pilot who stated he drove the runway. I feel if the plow had a radio with the CTAF frequency available and was making calls this would not have had happened. The county looks at this airport like it is just another duty to clear another section of concrete of snow. We have a base located at ZZZ and county is trying to plow the runway more often due to the high amount of flights that we are doing out of this uncontrolled airport. If there was a training program in place for plow drivers or if we had some company personnel watching the runway with a radio or I just elected to have higher personal weather minimums this would not have happened, an active NOTAM would have helped too. Synopsis Air taxi Captain reported that on takeoff from ZZZ when it was snowing he noticed a snow plow at the departure end of the runway.
Time / Day Date : 201702 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZBW.ARTCC State Reference : NH Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 3100 Environment Flight Conditions : IMC Weather Elements / Visibility : Icing Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZBW Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Light Transport Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Ambulance Flight Phase : Descent Route In Use : Vectors Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.Class E : ZBW Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Facility : ZBW.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Enroute Function.Air Traffic Control : Departure Function.Air Traffic Control : Approach Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1425113 Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Situational Awareness Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Facility : ZBW.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Handoff / Assist Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1425123 Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Confusion
Person : 3 Reference : 3 Location Of Person.Facility : ZBW.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Supervisor / CIC Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos 1 (yrs) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1425110 Human Factors : Time Pressure Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Airspace Violation : All Types Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airport Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Weather Narrative: 1 Aircraft X was trying to land at CYES (an uncontrolled airport without an instrument approach). I descended him to 050 for arrival. I advised him of moderate rime icing in the vicinity from a PQI departure with the altitudes and temperature. I advised him that no weather was available for C YES and offered him the FVE weather since it was the closest airport. I provided him the FVE special observation and advised him to contact FSS for the current NOTAMS. He advised that his intentions were to land at CYES visually and advised that his plan was to fly the RNAV approach into FVE via the IAF if he was unable to get the field in sight. He asked for a lower altitude to get ground contact. I descended him to 031 which is the Minimum IFR Altitude (MIA) around PQI. Montreal center called to get an updated departure time for Aircraft X and advised that they were blocking the airspace for him. By this time the complexity of the sectors was rapidly increasing due to weather and increased traffic. I provided Aircraft X with the updated weather at FVE and asked his intentions. He wanted to continue and try to get the field in sight. The PQI departure that had reported moderate rime icing was now reporting severe icing and requesting a climb to avoid. I called the Controller in Charge (CIC) over to report the severe icing while getting further reports from [the PQI departure]. A D side was provided at this time and while they were
being briefed, I noticed that Aircraft X had entered the 035 MIA. I told Aircraft X that if he didn't have the field in sight that he needed to climb to 035. He advised that he did not have the field and was climbing. He stated that he couldn't get the field in sight and wanted to fly the RNAV for FVE. He was issued a right turn to 110 to avoid a higher MVA. While this was occurring, a BGR departure (which I leveled at 100 due to a BGR arrival at 110) reported moderate rime icing at 100. This report was passed to an ALTRAV that was entering the sector that was also landing BGR. I asked the CIC to split the sectors due to complexity and Surry Sector was split off. Any time that an aircraft is going to enter uncontrolled airspace an MSAW alert goes off due to the fact that the MIA is listed as 128. An MSAW alert would be expected and would be looked over. I recommend that there be an instrument approach into CYES. Narrative: 2 I was returning from my break and began running the list to see which Certified Professional Controller (CPC) was ready for a break. The CIC at the time asked me to open up 15/16 D-Side, to assist the radar controller, because there was weather and icing in the Surry sector. As I was opening up the D-side, and getting myself caught up on the traffic situation, the radar controller announced to me that he had mistakenly descended an aircraft below the MIA at 031 in a 035 feet shelf. The aircraft call sign was Aircraft X and it was inbound to CYES, which is an airport in uncontrolled airspace just outside our airspace. The weather conditions were very IFR at CYES. I am not sure why the radar controller descended the aircraft below the MIA, since it happened right as I was sitting down. I am thinking that he was trying to use the TAA [Terminal Arrival Area] for the RNAV 32 approach into the neighboring airport FVE in hopes that the aircraft would get C YES in sight and be able to proceed visually. Unfortunately, I do not know further details about how or why the aircraft was below the MIA. The radar controller was actively working with the CIC to remedy the situation at the time, and then the CIC quickly split the sectors as the next controller was walking into the control room right at that time. There is a lot of ambiguity surrounding aircraft landing at CYES, since it is in uncontrolled airspace and is in Canada. There are no instrument approaches going into that airport, so many times controllers are able to successfully use the approach into FVE to get the aircraft to get CYES in sight. Unfortunately, there is no other way to allow the aircraft to descend below 035 without using that to be able to get low enough to get the airport in sight. It would be very helpful to have an airway that went from PQI to YYY VOR that would allow an aircraft to descend below the 035 MIA, or better yet, an instrument approach going into CYES airport. Narrative: 3 I was working the CIC position for Area D performing a request for a controller when I walked by sector 15/16 and noticed an aircraft that appeared to be flying below the MIA at 3100 feet. I asked the controller working the position what they were doing with that aircraft. The reply from them did not seem the safest answer. Upon further discussion with them it was decided to climb the aircraft back up to the MIA of 3500 feet. I asked the controller to fill out a report and reported it to the Operations Manager In Charge (OMIC). Synopsis ZBW Controllers reported that an aircraft was descended below the Minimum IFR Altitude in error to get it below clouds to see the airport.
Time / Day Date : 201702 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Night Ceiling.SingIe Value : 4000 Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Helicopter Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Ambulance Flight Phase : Parked Route In Use : Direct Component 10 Aircraft Component : Other Documentation Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Improperly Operated Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Qualification.Flight Crew : Rotorcraft Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 30 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 5500 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1425045 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Time Pressure Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Ground Personnel
Events Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : Pre-flight Result.FIight Crew : Became Reoriented Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Captain for air ambulance was on a training flight and had put his EMS base on a 15 minute delay in case the base received a call from dispatch. Captain submitted a risk assessment for the training flight and checked the box for 'accepts change to mission'. 5 minutes after departing on training flight, base received an air ambulance operation; pilot returned to base, picked up crew and departed. Upon landing at the community hospital, the Captain attempted to complete a new risk assessment, but could not get the iPad tablet to have connectivity (rural area). Med crew came out of ER with patient, Captain started aircraft and flew to trauma center. Captain forgot to attempt to complete the risk assessment at that location. Entire crew flew back to base and the Captain filled out a risk assessment for the entire patient flight upon return to base. It has been determined that the Captain did not intend to circumnavigate the risk process and acted in good faith. The Captain received counseling from his immediate supervisor on how to appropriately handle this type of situation if it happens again. Synopsis Air ambulance helicopter pilot reported a failure to complete the flight risk assessment process due to iPad communication problems in a rural area.
Time / Day Date : 201702 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZLA.ARTCC State Reference : CA Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZLA Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Helicopter Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Ambulance Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : None Airspace.Special Use : R2510 Aircraft : 2 Aircraft Operator : Military Make Model Name : Fighter Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Tactical Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.SpeciaI Use Person : 1 Reference : I : R2510 Location Of Person.FaciIity : ZLA.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Enroute Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control.Time Certified In Pos 1 (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1421777 Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Human Factors : Confusion : Human-Machine Interface Human Factors Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Distraction Breakdown.Party1 : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Communication Person : 2 : 18
Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial Qualification.FIight Crew : Rotorcraft Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 3500 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 100 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 300 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1422236 Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly.Airspace Violation : All Types Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 Aircraft X called me and asked if restricted area R2510 was active. On my display it was showing inactive. I told the pilot it was inactive and quickly glanced at the time it was to change and told him that as well. It turns out, whoever was responsible for updating the restricted areas made a mistake so it was showing cold when in fact it was hot. The pilot called in to the front desk to complain about being "buzzed" by fighter jets when transiting the airspace. When I looked back over my left shoulder to find the time the restricted area was to change, I should have taken a closer look. I would have realized that the board was accurate. It showed the restricted area active, but I didn't 100k that far. I only looked at the time It was to change. I should have paid closer attention. Although the restricted area should have been displayed as active on my display I could have prevented the incident with a little more awareness. Narrative: 2
40 nm west of BWC, I contacted LA Center on Freq. to determine whether R-2510 was "hot or cold". I was then told by the Controller that R-2510 was in fact "cold/inactive". I was then approved to enter the restricted airspace eastbound to [my] destination. Middle of the airspace (15nm east of BWC), I noted a formation of 4 fighter jet aircraft performing aerobatics with smoke. Upon the jets finishing their maneuver I elected to climb in altitude to about 3000MSL to provide more vertical separation. I then contacted LA Center to confirm again that the airspace was "cold", he replied that it was indeed "cold/inactive". During this time, one of the four fighter jets approached the helo to recon/ident our aircraft. I reported the event to the controller, where he then contacted resources on his end to further confirm the status of R-2510. The LA Center controller came back and stated "there are schedule conflicts in the system and the airspace has gone hot/active, but was cold when I was cleared through." The controller then provided me with a supervisor number where I followed up after landing. It was determined that the pilot was not at fault since he was cleared through the "thought-to-be" inactive zone. Synopsis ZLA Controller and helicopter pilot reported of incorrect information which led to an airspace deviation. The Controller had advised the pilot that the restricted airspace was inactive, approved the flight through the airspace when the airspace was actually active.
Time / Day Date : 201701 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Environment Flight Conditions : Marginal Weather Elements / Visibility Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : EC135 : Icing Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Mission : Ambulance Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.Class E : ZZZ Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.FIight Crew : Rotorcraft Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument ASRS Report Number Accession Number : Human Factors : Training / Qualification Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events 1421137 Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Landed As Precaution Result.FIight Crew : Diverted Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Weather Narrative: 1 Human Factors Weather I was on a medical mission with patient on board. The forecast had shown low visibility along the route but nothing lower than four miles. There were several small snow flurries reported in the surrounding area but none along the route. I had checked the TAF [for the airports involved] as well as METARS along the route of flight. I had mentioned to my crew that we would have to stay extra vigilant with regards to low visibility on the flight. I was under NVGs on the flight and after taking off from the referring hospital I referenced the visibility to be greater than ten miles. About twenty five minutes into the flight I began to notice the visibility to be decreasing. I stated to my crew that we had low visibility ahead but was still approximately four miles (referenced by local airfield with lighted beacon and GPS distance). Shortly after the visibility in front was less, while out of my peripheral I could see much greater visibility. I scanned right, then left and estimated a four mile difference in visibility. I thought it may be the windscreen fogging up so I turned on the heating/demist. After a short time it had still not improved. It was at this time I thought something was wrong and flipped my goggles up and turned my lip light on. Instantly I noticed my windscreen was covered in ice! I immediately notified my crew and started a descent while making a radio call to the local airfield of my intent to emergency descend and land. Crew was able to see clearly out of side windows and was vigilantly looking for obstacles. We made a safe landing and notified dispatch via satellite phone. I set the aircraft to idle and placed the friction on the controls to exit. Once outside I noticed the ice on the windscreen was slushy as if starting to melt. I cleared the windscreen and returned to the cockpit. I did not notice any other icing at this time. Once inside we initiated protocol to get the patient to proper care. Dispatch was still looking for a facility to take the patient when I happened to look out my right window and noticed a hospital less than a mile away. We found the hospital in our local landing zone guide and relayed the info to dispatch. Arrangements were made with that hospital and we were requested to re position to their helipad if possible. We had been sitting at idle for about twenty minutes and ceilings were higher than previously per weather station. The area was well lit from ground lights and I was able to clearly see the hospital and the cloud levels. Conditions had changed enough so a decision was made to relocate to the hospital. Once landed on the pad, I assisted the crew down into the hospital. I returned to the aircraft about an hour after landing and inspected the aircraft. It was at this time I noticed the icing on the blades. I contacted Operations to discuss the situation and possible relocation of the aircraft. The process of running the helicopter on the ground for a short time to try to loosen and shed the ice on the blades, then shutting down and inspecting the blades was discussed. It was stated that if there was no ice found and icing conditions did not exist I could possibly relocate the aircraft to the airfield. I checked in with the crew to get an update on future logistics then returned to the aircraft about forty minutes later. At this time I went to proceed with the ground run and noticed the conditions had worsened. The helicopter had accumulated more ice on the structure and the blades and I witnessed rain freezing on contact to the windscreen. I referenced conditions at the airfield once again to find conditions subject to freezing fog and drizzle. I cannot say I have any suggestions on how to avoid flying into that situation. Of course hindsight is only great for learning from a situation but isn't present at the time of an event, but I would say I would not re position to the hospital without full shut down and complete post flight inspection if there was a chance to do it again. But at the time I used
the information available to me and deemed the weather to have improved enough to proceed to the hospital. Synopsis Helicopter pilot reported encountering icing conditions and landed at the nearest airport.
Time / Day Date : 201612 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZZZ.TRACON State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 2000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Helicopter Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Ambulance Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : VFR Route Airspace.CIass C : ZZZ Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Make Model Name : Small Aircraft Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Flight Plan : IFR Flight Phase : Climb Route In Use : Vectors Person Reference : I Location Of Person. Facility : ZZZ.TRACON Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Approach Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1408366 Human Factors : Training / Qualification Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Airborne Conflict 1 (yrs) : 2.25 Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control
When Detected : In-flight Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Result.Air Traffic Control : Separated Traffic Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 I was working arrival radar with light traffic. Local control was training. A medical helicopter called me northeast of the field and needed medevac-priority handling to the local hospital. I radar identified the aircraft and told the helicopter to maintain 2,000 feet for traffic in the traffic pattern at ZZZ. The direct route for this helicopter to get to the hospital would take him directly over the right downwind for Runway XY and directly over the departure end of Runway X Y. Since this was a Medevac flight, I was not going to alter the route. Runway XY was the active runway at the time. When the helicopter was 15 miles to the northeast of ZZZ, I called tower and asked for a pointout to 2,000 feet to go to [a local] Hospital and stated that the helicopter was medevac-priority. The local control trainee approved the pointout. Local control had two aircraft in the pattern at 1,500 feet for runway XY and my helicopter had both in sight. When the pattern traffic was no factor for my helicopter, I called Local Control to ask if I could descend my helicopter towards the hospital. It was then that I realized an IFR aircraft just departed Runway XY on runway heading and was directly below my helicopter. IFR aircraft depart ZZZ with an initial altitude of 3,000 feet. This IFR aircraft would be talking to another radar controller and not me. Local control ended up stopping the IFR aircraft, Aircraft Y, at 1,500 feet, well below the Minimum Vectoring Altitude for the area. The trainer on Local Control asked me to put the medevac helicopter on local's frequency so that they could solve the issue since this was all taking place right off the departure end of the runway. I made sure that my helicopter had the aircraft in sight and switched him to the tower frequency. I'm not exactly sure what local did to solve this issue. A short time later I was in the break room and the trainee walked in and tried to explain what had happened. He told me that he had forgotten about the pointout. He had put the aircraft in question into position on the runway behind his pattern traffic and when he had the correct runway spacing, he gave it a take-off clearance. Throughout this whole time, the trainer did not stop the trainee and let the situation play out making this aircraft come within 500 feet of a medevac-priority helicopter that needed to descend. Local control has the ability to turn datablocks yellow to signify a pointout (a memory aid). I do not know if this was performed. Maybe I called for a pointout too early? I could have waited a few more minutes when the helicopter was a few miles from tower's airspace and then maybe the trainee would not have forgotten about the helicopter. The trainer needed to pay more attention to what the trainee was doing. Synopsis A T RACON Controller reported a departing aircraft in conflict with an overflight helicopter they were working.
Time / Day Date : 201611 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Other Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : EC130 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Ambulance Flight Phase : Landing Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Rotorcraft ASRS Report Number Accession Number : Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events 1405035 Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Object Detector. Person : Flight Crew Were Passengers Involved In Event : N When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.FIight Crew : Regained Aircraft Control Result.Flight Crew : Landed As Precaution Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Airport Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1
Was returning to base after completing patient flight with strong winds. Our base has a very small pad and the dolly cannot be turned to face into the winds. I landed back at the base into the wind in the grassy area to the east of the pad/dolly so the medical crew could get out. I told them I was going to attempt to land on the dolly one time, then if it didn't feel right, I would land back to the grassy area. After the crew got out, I hovered over to the dolly and attempted to land with a tailwind. As I was about to touch down on the dolly, a wind gust caused the helicopter to yaw right about 20-30 degrees and descend. The skids hit the dolly and I immediately pulled in collective to stop the descent and to move back to the grassy area. However, as I pulled in collective, the helicopter felt like it was hung on something and began to feel like what I imagine dynamic rollover feels like. I lowered the collective to stop that from happening and shut down. After looking at the helicopter, it appears that the right rear skid got hung in the gap in the middle of the dolly. That caused the dynamic rollover feeling. Another thing I noticed was the dolly had shifted several feet. I don't know when that happened, before the skids contacted the ground, or when the skids contacted the dolly. Synopsis EC-130 pilot reported attempting to set down on a dolly with a tailwind, but hit a skid on the dolly and pulled the collective to ascend. Sensing what the pilot thought could be dynamic rollover developing, he landed the helicopter. It was determined that a skid had caught on the dolly.
Time / Day Date : 201611 Local Time Of Day : 0001-0600 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Environment Flight Conditions : Mixed Weather Elements / Visibility : Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Rain Make Model Name : Helicopter Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Ambulance Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass E : ZZZ Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1399837 Events Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : VFR In IMC Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Weather Narrative: 1 I checked weather before departing sending facility. Weather at sending facility was OVC033 and IOSM. Weather at closest reporting station along route was FEW026 BKN041 and IOSM. I also checked the Helicopter Emergency Medical Services (HEMS) Tool and it
showed VFR weather conditions with some rain showers along the route. About 10 min from receiving hospital I encountered light to moderate rain showers and visibility between 6 and 7 NM. Because of the rain it was difficult to estimate the ceiling, but I thought I was more than 500 feet below the clouds. About 7 NM west of [the hospital] I encountered Inadvertent IMC (IIMC). It happened extremely fast. I immediately transitioned to instruments. Once the aircraft was stable I initiated a turn to return to VMC. I maintained my cruising altitude as I turned. The Company IIMC Procedure calls for a climb to the MSA. The OAT indicated 3.5C and I did not want to risk climbing into icing conditions. I knew that my cruising altitude would keep me clear of all terrain and obstacles in the area, and I knew that there were VFR conditions behind me and to the North. Approximately 1-2 min later I returned to VMC. I marked the "Reduced Safety Standards" Box above because I did not maintain the safety standard of cloud clearance and visibility for the class of airspace I was in. I was wearing Night Vision Goggles (NVGs) for the flight. It can be difficult to detect the extent of reduced visibility conditions while using NVGs. In the future I will periodically look under my goggles to help identify reduced visibility conditions in front of me. If I can identify the conditions sooner than I can deviate prior to entering the IMC. One final note. The Altitude and Heading Reference System (AHRS) I and the Auto Pilot were MEL'd for this flight. This increased my workload. In the future, when items that increase my workload are MEL'd I Will increase my personal limitations for Ceiling and Visibility. Synopsis Helicopter Captain reported encountering IMC conditions during a night VFR ambulance flight. Pilot reported a turn to return to VMC and mentioned that wearing Night Vision Goggles can make it difficult to detect reduced visibility conditions.
Time / Day Date : 201610 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : EC135 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Mission : Ambulance Flight Phase : Parked Maintenance Status. Maintenance Deferred : N Maintenance Status. Records Complete : Y Maintenance Status. Released For Service : Y Maintenance Status. Required / Correct Doc On Board : Y Maintenance Status. Maintenance Type : Scheduled Maintenance Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved : Installation Component Aircraft Component : Main Rotor Blade Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : I Location Of Person : Company Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.Maintenance : Technician Qualification.Maintenance : Airframe Qualification.Maintenance : Powerplant ASRS Report Number.Accesslon Number . • 1398441 Human Factors : Troubleshooting Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Maintenance When Detected : Routine Inspection Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 Aircraft Procedure During Track and balance of Aircraft X, it was determined a Main Rotor (M/R) blade was needed. Mechanic I was working with and I removed blade and replaced with the same part number we removed. We finished track and balance and accumulated 0.3 flight time while completing the job. Upon return to the hangar to remove tracking equipment Quality Assurance (Mechanic) informed us that we installed the wrong Part Number. We reviewed the paperwork from both blades and determined it was not an upgraded blade that was installed. To upgrade the blade a Service Bulletin needed complied with installing upgraded dampeners. We installed the upgraded dampeners on the blade in question and corrected paperwork to reflect the change to the blade. The aircraft was then placed back in service. It was found that the removed blade was not properly identified, as per the Service Bulletin, to reflect it was an upgraded blade. The Service Bulletin states that a line will be drawn through the last two digits of the part number. In this case it would have been the number XY. Further, the number XZ will be written in permanent marker next to the lined out number. The removed blade did not have a line through the last two digits and the XZ was not legible. Synopsis A Maintenance Technician reported that during track and balance on a EC-135 helicopter, a main rotor blade was needed. They upgraded the existing blade per a Service Bulletin.
Time / Day Date : 201610 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 2300 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : PA-28R Cherokee Arrow All Series Flight Plan : None Mission : Training Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use.Other Airspace.CIass D : ZZZ Airspace.CIass E : ZZZ Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Make Model Name : Helicopter Mission : Ambulance Airspace.Class D : ZZZ Airspace.CIass E : ZZZ Person Reference : 1 Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Private Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 275 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 60 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 20 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1396857 Human Factors : Training / Qualification Human Factors : Situational Awareness Analyst Callback : Completed Events Anomaly.Conflict : NMAC Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.HorizontaI : 250 Miss Distance.VerticaI : 50 When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action
Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Primary Problem : Airspace Structure Narrative: 1 Near mid air collision. Callback: 1 The reporter stated that he was in a practice area just outside of a class "D" airspace, with a flight instructor doing some training. They were setting up for some flight maneuvers when he saw a Medical Helicopter coming up on him on a collision course. He took evasive action to avoid hitting the helicopter. The reporter stated that he believes the helicopter pilot never saw them at all. The reporter also stated that there was never any communication with ATC or the helicopter pilot. He said he was aware of a helicopter in the area, but believed the helicopter was much farther north from their position. Synopsis PA28R pilot reported a NMAC with a medical helicopter while setting up for a flight maneuver.
Time / Day Date : 201610 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : AAO.Airport State Reference : KS Relative Position. Distance. Nautical Miles : 8 Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 4000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Dusk Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : AAO Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Ambulance Nav In Use.Localizer/GIidesIope/ILS : Runway 19 Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use : Vectors Airspace.CIass E : ICT Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.CTAF : AAO Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Skyhawk 172/CutIass 172 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Initial Approach Airspace.CIass E : ICT Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor
Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 3200 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 30 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 130 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1396205 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : NMAC Detector.Automation : Aircraft TA Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.VerticaI : 300 When Detected : In-flight Result.General : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I was flying left seat as pilot in command with a second in command pilot in the right seat. We were on an IFR flight plan in VFR conditions and were receiving vectors from Wichita [TRACON] to intercept the ILS for Runway 19 AAO which was our final destination. After clearance to descend to 4000 and vectors to intercept the inbound course the controller advised traffic, a primary target at our location as I was turning and descending to intercept the localizer. Then the controller advised us to change to the advisory frequency. At that point I was turning inbound in the course and immediately stopped the descent while looking for the reported traffic. The SIC changed to the advisory frequency, and established radio contact with the pilot of the C172. As that pilot was advising us that our aircraft was passing overhead of his aircraft, I noticed the TCAS system display a target within 300 ft of our aircraft. The SIC radioed the pilot of the C172 we were on an active Medevac flight and asked if he would clear the area while we completed our approach and landing into AAO. He agreed and we were able to complete our approach and landing into AAO without further incident or delay. At the time of this incident the aircraft flight and navigation systems were operating properly to the best of my recollection. In my opinion the controller should have had us remain on the [T RACON] frequency to assist us in remaining clear of that primary target. Synopsis Air taxi Captain reported experiencing a NMAC with a C172 on approach to the non- Towered AAO airport.
Time / Day Date : 201610 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZLC.ARTCC State Reference : UT Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 10000 Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZLC Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Small Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turboprop Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Ambulance Flight Phase : Climb Airspace.CIass E : ZLC Person Reference : I Location Of Person.FaciIity : ZLC.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Enroute Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1392986 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Human-Machine Interface Events Anomaly.Airspace Violation : All Types Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Detector.Automation : Air Traffic Control Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 Airspace Structure ATC Equipment / Nav Facility / Buildings Human Factors Procedure I took the sector over and didn't notice an aircraft level at 10000 feet that indicated in the data block a climb to 17000 feet and there was a loss of separation with terrain. The previous controller released Aircraft X to 10,000 feet. They removed the interim altitude of 10000 feet removed from the radar data block. Aircraft X checked on climbing to 10,000 feet. I plugged in for a position briefing. I took over the sector. Aircraft X leveled at 10,000 feet while I was still "nesting" after signing on to position. The MSAW alert went off and the aircraft requested a higher altitude. I asked him what altitude he would like and then I realized he wasn't climbing and issued a climb to 17,000 feet as the aircraft entered an 11000 foot Minimum Vectoring Altitude. A low altitude alert was issued and pilot responded he had the terrain In sight. Don't remove interim altitude before issuing new altitude. Scan faster. Synopsis ZLC Controller reported observing an aircraft at 10,000 feet in a MVA area designated 11,000 feet.
Time / Day Date : 201609 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 4000 Environment Light : Night Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Large Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Climb Airspace.CIass E : ZZZ Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory Center : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Any Unknown or Unlisted Aircraft Manufacturer Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Ambulance Flight Phase : Climb Airspace.CIass E : ZZZ Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1390677 Confusion Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : : Workload Human Factors Communication Breakdown Human Factors :
Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown. Party2 . • ATC Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1390679 Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Track / Heading : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Other / Unknown Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Flight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 We requested a "hold for release IFR clearance", due to departing "IFR" traffic ahead of us. Our ATC clearance was to depart a specific runway, climb to 3000 feet, and turn left to a heading of 180. (Note: ATC radar was out of service). After given our "release for departure", we were then given further climb altitudes. During the early climb, ATC requested us to intercept a VOR radial. We were filed on an FMC route and needed to tune the VOR. The First Officer (FO) mistakenly told ATC we were established on the 160 radial. I mentioned to the FO that we were not yet established and that I would do a 140 degree heading intercept. The FO then told ATC that we were not established on the 160 radial and were heading to 140. Communication breakdown. ATC then said flying 140 climb to and maintain xx altitude. We understood this to mean climb to xx altitude and maintain 140 (an intercept heading would be a normal course of action and not need a revised altitude). When in radar contact we received further direct routing and our final altitude. On hand off he asked us to give center a call upon arrival.
Communication breakdown/confusing instructions. Narrative: 2 Cleared, heading 180, climb 3,000 feet. Checked in with Center, cleared to 4,000 feet. Soon after, cleared to 9,000 feet. Medevac flight which departed before us was seen on TCAS 2,500 feet above us and 10-12 miles ahead at our 11 0'clock. Center asked us to intercept the 160 radial off of ZZZ. I mistakenly observed unreliable NDB needle on the 160 radial (it was 140 radial and bouncing), but quickly responded on the radio that we were already on the ZZZ 160 radial (in error). The Captain pointed out my mistake and as we discussed, center became concerned leveling us off and Inquired about our 180 heading clearance from ZZZ Radio. More confusion followed for we didn't know if we should continue to intercept the 160 radial or return to 180 heading. Center has us come further right of course and continue climb. We never came closer to 5 miles of the medevac aircraft, yet 15-20 minutes later center gave us a phone number to contact citing a possible investigation into pilot navigation error/discrepancy. Following debrief and contact with center supervisor, we were told that a quality control check was being pursued. Lack of good communication techniques with my Captain and ATC following poor situational awareness. Synopsis Air carrier flight crew described the confusion resulting from the First Officer mistakenly confirming aircraft established on a VOR radial, instead stating the aircraft heading which confused ATC.
Time / Day Date : 201608 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Relative Position. Distance. Nautical Miles : 10 Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 6600 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility : Turbulence Weather Elements / Visibility.VisibiIity : 20 Light : Night Ceiling.Single Value : 2000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Helicopter Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Ambulance Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Direct Airspace.Class E : ZZZ Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 8700 Experience. Flight Crew. Last 90 Days : 150 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 184 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1381828 Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Distraction Events
Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Detector.Automation : Aircraft Terrain Warning Detector.Automation : Aircraft TA When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : FLC complied w / Automation / Advisory Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Ambiguous Narrative: 1 While returning to base from a patient transfer I encountered reduced ceilings enroute. The ceiling was consistent at about 2000 feet AGL. There was rising terrain ahead. I selected an altitude that would allow me to cross the high ground an equal distance from the terrain and the ceiling. The terrain was not level, as I crossed the apex of the pass the terrain alerting system in the aircraft announced minimums several times. My focus was outside the aircraft but when I did glance at the radar altitude I noted that I had gone below 500 feet AGL several times. This terrain crossing lasted a few minutes. I could have minimized the number of terrain alerts but chose to stay in a stable flight profile. The visibility was very good and the illumination from cultural lighting was more than sufficient to identify obstacles and prevent CFIT. I am required to maintain 500 AGL at night per the FARs. My decision to stay an equal distance from the clouds and the terrain put me below minimums. I felt that the greatest risk during this portion of the flight was an Inadvertent IMC (IIMC) event. Based on the visibility and the illumination I felt that a lower altitude guaranteeing cloud clearance was the most conservative approach. Landing the aircraft was always an option. What I did not want to do was climb the aircraft closer to the clouds to satisfy the system. The risk was an IIMC event, the terrain and obstacles were clearly illuminated. Since Night Vision Goggles (NVG) are in such wide use today there should be a change that allows pilots to fly at lower altitudes with NVGs. We are able to reduce our weather minimums but not our in route minimum altitude. Synopsis A helicopter pilot reported difficulty maintaining the FAR required altitude above terrain due to a lowering weather ceiling and rising terrain.
Time / Day Date : 201607 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZI.Airport State Reference : US Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.VisibiIity : Light : Daylight Ceiling.Single Value : 12000 Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : King Air C90 E90 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : None Mission : Ambulance Flight Phase : Landing Route In Use : Direct Airspace.CIass G : ZZZI Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying 10 Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 6230 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 50 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 750 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1375426 Human Factors : Fatigue Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Runway Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate Result.Flight Crew : Became Reoriented
Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 My crew was dispatched from ZZZ to ZZZI at which point we were to pick up a patient in ZZZI and take them to a better care facility in ZZZ2. I was taking a safety nap when dispatch came in, because of sleep inertia I assumed that we were leaving from ZZZ to ZZZ2, which is our routine flight and because of this I took my time filing flight plans and even took a shower because our medics usually take about 30 minutes packaging the patient to bring them to the plane. One of the medics came in the crew quarters and ask if I was ready for departure, it was at this point that I realized that I had sleep inertia and had planned the flight completely wrong. I hurriedly exited the crew quarters and entered the plane, took Off to ZZZI without checking NOTAMs. The Runway was NOTAMed closed for resurfacing, I did not notice the yellow X off the end of the runway because it was laying in weeds which blocked my view of it from a lateral angle. There were no workers or equipment present on the runway. I spoke with the Airport Manager and he gave me permission to depart ZZZI. Synopsis C90 Captain reported being awakened from sleep to fly a medevac flight but not comprehending the assignment due to fatigue. When informed that the flight is ready to depart he quickly jumped in the aircraft without checking NOTAMs. After landing he learned that the airport was closed for runway resurfacing.
Time / Day Date : 201607 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : RLD.Airport State Reference : WA Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Dusk Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : RLD Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Light Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Ambulance Flight Phase : Landing Route In Use : Visual Approach Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Small Aircraft Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Takeoff Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 6500 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 50 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 500 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1372997
Human Factors : Situational Awareness Analyst Callback : Attempted Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.FIight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 4900 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 50 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 2000 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1372992 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Analyst Callback : Attempted Events Anomaly.Conflict : Ground Conflict, Critical Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.Horizontal : 75 Miss Distance.VerticaI : O When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 We were landing on runway 19 [which is] shorter and narrower than average. We had reported the airport in sight about 15 miles out on an IFR flight plan and received the visual. Runway 19 is the calm wind runway and also the runway with the least amount of slope. The winds were calm and the time of day was sunset. At about 8 miles out we canceled IFR and switched over to advisory frequency. The PNF made radio calls on CTAF. I was flying and concentrating rather intently on Vref and the proper angle to be flown for a short field landing. I touched down about 1,000 feet down the runway and almost immediately spotted a small airplane moving at a high rate of speed from my right to my left on runway 8. The closure rate was very fast and I applied pressure on the right rudder to veer as safely as possible to my right and miss the small aircraft. We missed each other by about 75 feet right at the intersecting point of the two runways. Left rudder was briskly applied to correct the airplane back to the center of the runway. More radio calls were made after we observed the airplane continue his takeoff run and return for a landing. No answers were received. The sun was setting on our right side and obscured the view of the approach end of runway 8. Corrective Action: Our industry has progressed far too much in the last 25 years to not
require a radio for all aircraft that use the terminal area of a specific size of airport. This particular airport has multiple approaches and is located within 5 miles of a class D airport. Narrative: 2 I believe the contributing factors to this near collision were crossing runways at an uncontrolled airport, the sun obstructing our view to the west, and an aircraft that was not making position reports on CTAF. In my opinion, in the technological age in which we live, all aircraft should be mandated to have an operational radio and to participate in position reports on CT AF at non controlled airports, especially with instrument approaches. Had the other pilot been on the radio, this event would never have happened. Synopsis Air ambulance flight crew landing at RLD reported a near collision with another aircraft taking off on an intersecting runway. The other aircraft reportedly was not communicating on CTAF frequency.
Time / Day Date : 201606 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : GEG.TRACON State Reference : WA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 3500 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : GEG Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Small Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Ambulance Flight Phase : Climb Route In Use : Vectors Airspace.Class D : SFF Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.Tower : GEG Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Medium Large Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use.Other Airspace.CIass C : GEG Person Reference : I Location Of Person.FaciIity : GEG.TRACON Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Trainee Function.Air Traffic Control : Departure Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Developmental ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1368320 Human Factors : Training / Qualification Human Factors : Situational Awareness
Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : FLC complied w / Automation / Advisory Result.FIight Crew : Executed Go Around / Missed Approach Result.Air Traffic Control : Separated Traffic Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 Airspace Structure Human Factors Procedure I am currently a CPC-IT (Controller In Training) and was training on radar. I had just taken the position from a previous controller and saw that Aircraft X was departing off SFF on a heading of 300 restricted at or below 3500 feet(this is a built in procedure for VFR aircraft coming off SFF). I was briefed that Aircraft Y was cleared on the RNAV Z RWY 21 approach and had been switched to the tower. I recognized that the two aircraft were going to be a conflict and was trying to formulate a solution. Aircraft Y was descending out of approximately 4500 feet when Aircraft X checked on level at 3500 feet. At this point the two aircraft were pointed right at each other approximately 3 miles apart. I knew aircraft on the RNAV Z RWY 21 approach were allowed to descend to 3500 which is the exact altitude that Aircraft X was restricted at. When Aircraft X checked on I told him altitude your discretion and to proceed on course, followed by a traffic call. My initial plan was to have Aircraft X climb above the descending Aircraft Y, then issue a northerly heading if necessary. My instructor keyed over me at that point, gave a traffic alert and told Aircraft X to fly northbound. The tower then called saying Aircraft Y was responding to a TCAS alert and was coming back to radar for resequencing. Aircraft X continued on course below Aircraft Y and the session continued without further incident. Foremost, it was poor control judgment on my part to not issue an immediate turn to Aircraft X and to think that an altitude swap alone was going to resolve the situation. I was slow to see how quickly the situation was developing and should have been quicker to react. However, I do think that the letter of agreement (LOA) pertaining to automatic VFR releases between SFF and GEG is flawed. The procedure calls for all VFR aircraft whose departure routes will take them towards GEG Class C surface area to either fly heading 300 at or below 3500 feet or remain south of the interstate at or below 3500 feet. My two main concerns with this procedure relate to aircraft separation and vectors below the minimum vectoring altitude. VFR aircraft departing SFF on a heading of 300 at or below 3500 points them directly at GEG's final. Typically aircraft on the visual approach to RWY 21 and other approach procedures pass over these VFR aircraft at 4000. However, outside of issuing an immediate control instruction to avoid a conflict, there is no ensured separation with this procedure. This lack of separation can also happen with VFR aircraft departing south of the interstate at or below 3500 feet. It is especially concerning to me that aircraft on the RNAV Z RWY 21 approach can descend to 3500 feet on the base turn, the exact altitude that a VFR aircraft coming off of SFF can be at.
I also think the LOA is contradictory to the 7110.65 relating to vectors below the MVA (Minimum Vectoring Altitude). In the 7110.65 per 5-6-1 it makes it very clear that a VFR aircraft cannot be assigned a heading and altitude below the MVA (with certain exceptions that either don't apply in this case or have not been made clear to me). All of our MVAs in the area are above 3500 ft MSL which make me unsure of how this LOA is meeting the 7110.65 requirement. This incident definitely drove home the point that imminent traffic situations can develop very quickly and at any time. In future situations I will take more evasive action and be more vigilant to avoid making a similar mistake. I think departing VFR aircraft either to the NE or SE would be a better procedure for SFF. However, I know there is higher terrain east of SFF so this might not be possible. The other idea would be for SFF to call for VFR releases. I definitely think this procedure should be revisited to avoid conflicts with future aircraft. Synopsis An Air Traffic Controller Trainee reported failing to take sufficient action to keep a VFR aircraft away from an IFR aircraft executing an approach to an airport. The Trainee Controller mistakenly believed he could not vector the VFR aircraft below the MVA.
Time / Day Date : 201606 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : CHS.Tower State Reference : SC Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : CHS Aircraft Operator : Military Make Model Name : Military Transport Flight Plan : IFR Flight Phase : Final Approach Airspace.Class C : CHS Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory. Tower : CHS Make Model Name : Small Aircraft, Low Wing, 1 Eng, Fixed Gear Flight Plan : VFR Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use : None Airspace.Class C : CHS Aircraft : 3 Reference : Z ATC / Advisory.Tower : CHS Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Helicopter Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Ambulance Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.Class C : CHS Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Facility : CHS.Tower Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Local Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1364396 Human Factors : Distraction : Situational Awareness Human Factors Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Confusion : 9.6
Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Wake Vortex Encounter Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 TRACON called to coordinate the request of Aircraft X to fly TACAN 03, circle overhead ("the entire airfield") to Runway 33, then entry into the Tower pattern. I was given "your control in the tower pattern" from TRACON. The data tag conflicted with the information from verbal coordination, so I reattempted coordination with TRACON to verify the situation. The Front Line Manager (FLM) called on the telephone to straighten that out and to give me other airfield information. West radar then called and restated the situation, "Aircraft X, TACAN RY03, circle 33 with the overfly. Aircraft Y will be straight in to follow Aircraft X". Aircraft X was shipped to me at about 7 NM final RY03 and stated the request to overfly the airport for R Y 33. Clearance was issued. When Aircraft X was short final, she requested to enter initial on the missed approach. I told her that we will be able to accommodate that request. When Aircraft X was over the intersection, Aircraft Y checked onto my frequency straight into RY33 (10 NM final). I asked if he had Aircraft X in sight and the answer was no. While I started to go through my options, I asked again if Aircraft Y had the Aircraft X in sight, turning onto the downwind for RY33. He said yes. I then instructed Aircraft Y to "Maneuver as necessary to follow Aircraft X, caution wake turbulence for Aircraft X, R Y 33 cleared to land". When Aircraft X was turning base I issued the same instructions (360, "s" turns, whatever he needed). When Aircraft X went around, I adjusted the data block of the Aircraft X to reflect initial RY03, full stop in accordance with CHS7110. I then adjusted the flight paths of Aircraft Y and a corporate jet to make a hole for Aircraft X. After Aircraft X entered initial RY03, TRACON called for a point out on Aircraft Z, a helicopter to a local hospital. I asked if the helicopter was a lifeguard (priority) since he was enroute to a hospital and the data tag failed to reflect that information. The answer was yes. I approved the point out and fixed the data tag for West Radar/ TRACON. I was watching to see how the situation was working between Aircraft X and the helicopter, and between Aircraft X and the gap that I had built with the RY33 arrivals. I saw that Aircraft X would be descending onto the helicopter, losing wake turbulence separation, so I asked Aircraft X to go around and reenter initial. She complied. She flew out bound 5-7 NM to reenter when West Radar called to ask what she was doing, I told him. An aircraft was over Aircraft X at 3000 for RY03. West radar resequenced the arrival onto R Y 33 and I fixed that data tag. Synopsis CHS Tower Controller reported of a problem with traffic into the airport. The pattern traffic was working until the reporter was given a point out on a Lifeguard aircraft which caused the pattern to be disrupted and caused a wake turbulence problem.
Time / Day Date : 201606 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : EC135 : Thunderstorm Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Mission : Ambulance Flight Phase : Climb Airspace.CIass B : ZZZ Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Rotorcraft Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1361710 Human Factors : Distraction Events Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors
Narrative: 1 Received a flight request at about XA:30. I built the risk assessment on the iPad and didn't push send because I was waiting for our com center to send the flight to ZZZ. I went and talked with the flight crew to make sure that they would be comfortable with the thunderstorms out west and go over the risk assessment with them. They ended up being fine with the flight and I accepted it at XA:35. As I was walking through the com center I was told that there was a drone operating in one of the parking lots next to helipad and that the com center was going to call to have them stop operations. This was the biggest distraction for me. I knew nothing about any scheduled drone activity. When I lifted off I called the control tower and asked if they had been informed that there was a drone operating in their airspace. They also were unaware of the drone. The control tower said they would call the state police. Once I was clear of the hospital and no longer worried about the drone I realized I forgot to push send on the iPad for my risk assessment and wait for approval. I had my com center call and let them know. [Control] told them would need to call in. Once I landed at the scene I shut down and called. [Control] got the flight approved and we finished the fight. The only thing I would say is maybe have my com center ask if I have sent in my risk assessment when I'm walking out the door. But this is not their responsibility and the fault is mine 100%. I got distracted and forgot to push send and wait for the approval from [Control]. Synopsis Medevac helicopter pilot reported being advised of a UAV which was operating in the vicinity of his proposed flight path. This information caused him to be distracted which resulted in his non-compliance with company risk assessment procedures.
Time / Day Date : 201605 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Ceiling.Single Value : 2900 Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Bell Helicopter Textron Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Ambulance Flight Phase : Parked Flight Phase : Descent Component Aircraft Component : Tablet Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Design Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification.FIight Crew : Rotorcraft ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1359784 : Communication Breakdown : Distraction : Human-Machine Interface Situational Awareness Human Factors Human Factors Human Factors Human Factors : Human Factors Human Factors : Communication Communication Events : Time Pressure Confusion Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Breakdown.Party2 : Dispatch
Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Detector. Person : Dispatch When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 I put my risk [assessment] in and went about preparing for flight, I went up to the aircraft, did my walk around, came in to the cockpit, the iPad dinged like it does with every flight when OCC (Operations Control Center) approves it. I looked quickly at the screen and with the glare thought it was approved, it turned out OCC had not approved the mission but pinged me back to discuss the weather front to my west. I was aware of the front but in the time I had gone up to the helipad it had made a significant update on radar and moved closer. I took off with what I thought was an approved brief instead it was a call from OCC. I let dispatch know I was landing assured and they said call from OCC. When I did we discussed that the tone for approval and every notification is the same and the IT department was working on a change so it would be different. Flight was completed with no problems. I discussed it with the OCC personnel and a change to the approval ding on the IPad and other notifications is already in the works. Additionally I will discuss this with my base pilots and at the upcoming safety meeting to help make other pilots aware of the possible results of submitting a risk and specifically looking and ensuring the mission is approved not call OCC. Synopsis An EMS helicopter pilot reported hearing an iPad notification sound which he thought indicated Dispatch's mission approval after his risk assessment. In fact, Dispatch wanted to discuss weather. A distinctive Dispatch approval notification "ding" was discussed as a solution.
Time / Day Date : 201605 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : EC135 Mission : Ambulance Flight Phase : Initial Climb Component Aircraft Component : Turbine Engine Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Improperly Operated Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1356741 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Human-Machine Interface Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Confusion Communication Breakdown. Partyl : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Ground Personnel Events Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Crew Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y
When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action Result.Flight Crew : Landed As Precaution Result.FIight Crew : Rejected Takeoff Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.Aircraft : Aircraft Damaged Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Last night of my shift, landed for patient pickup at XA:56 with flight nurses on board. Upon landing, the nurses notified me that they had just been contacted by EMS on the VHF radio and that the patient had expired and we were no longer needed. Everyone remained seated and belted as we discussed that we hadn't heard anything yet from Operations and about how best to contact them. The crew members tried and were able to receive them on the ground and confirmed cancellation. This all took place quickly. I confirmed with crew that they were ready to lift and began to pull pitch when I noticed the Yellow Caution Light start to flash. Having just reached a low hover, I saw that only one engine was in fly and set the aircraft back down. I then realized that as a matter of habit, I must have begun to shut down on landing and only placed engine #2 in idle as we were being notified of cancellation. After full skids down there were no caution, warning lights or exceedances. I returned engine #2 to fly, and stopped to verify that there was no exceedance. I verified caution panel and instruments and continued with departure and return flight. After landing at base, upon placing engines in idle and after shut down, there were no exceedances on caution advisory display. After fueling the aircraft at base I had the master battery on to check fuel level and decided to double check the CAD. After start up, FADEC #1 illuminated an "Engine Exceed" light on the number one engine. The discrepancy was noted in the aircraft log book, duty mechanic responded and aircraft was placed out of service with dispatch. The aircraft being flown was our backup EC-135. Obviously, I am solely at fault for not exercising better situational awareness. This situation could have been avoided if I had not interrupted the process of going from flight to idle, something I don't think I have ever done before, and then re-initiated a complete pre-takeoff check. Synopsis An EC-135 EMS pilot landed for patient pickup, but because the patient had expired, the flight returned to base. The pilot started his takeoff with an engine in idle, but landed immediately, returned the engine to fly and departed. Upon arrival he discovered a CAD FADEC #1 "ENGINE EXCEED" alert so the aircraft was removed from service.
Time / Day Date : 201605 Local Time Of Day : 0001-0600 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZMP.ARTCC State Reference : MN Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 19000 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZMP Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Small Transport Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Ambulance Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Direct Airspace.Class A : ZMP Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory Center : ZMP Aircraft Operator : Military Make Model Name : Military Mission : Tactical Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass A : ZMP Airspace.Special Use : POWDER RIVER 4 Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.FaciIity : ZMP.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Enroute Function.Air Traffic Control : Supervisor / CIC Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos 1 (yrs) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1354660 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.FaciIity : ZMP.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Enroute Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified : 27.0
Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1354938 Person : 3 Reference : 3 Location Of Person.Facility : ZMP.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Enroute Function.Air Traffic Control : Supervisor / CIC Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos 1 (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1354934 Events Anomaly Airspace Violation : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance : 1.25 : 24.5 Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control Result.Flight Crew : Exited Penetrated Airspace Result.FIight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 Airspace Structure Chart Or Publication Manuals Procedure Aircraft X was a departure southbound requesting FL 190. Powder River 4 ATCAA was active from 15000 feet to FL260. Aircraft Y was in the airspace. I received a call from the ZLC supervisor stating the sector (20 or 23) had asked their controller to see if the airspace could be recalled. I went to the area to see what was happening and Aircraft X was at 14500 feet flying under the western boundary below the airspace. I confirmed with the ZLC supervisor that we would like it recalled FL 190 and below to accommodate the medevac aircraft. The sector 20 controller called me later and said they were talking to Aircraft Y and had issued him FL200 and above and the medevac was going to use the airspace. I told her we did not control the airspace and it was hot until it was released. I observed Aircraft X within 1-2 miles of the PRC4 airspace boundary at FL190 prior to the airspace being recalled. The ZLC supervisor called to release the airspace and felt the medevac was too close to PRC4 prior to that. I agreed and stated I would file an Mandatory Occurrence Report. Proper recall procedures were not followed, and Aircraft X entered the protected airspace of PR4 prior to official airspace recall. I was the Operation Manager on the midshift. The Traffic Management Unit (TMU) had gone home so I also had that position. The supervisor in Area 4 asked if she could plug in because she had two controllers going home. There were two midshift controllers who had signed in and not worked, and 1 controller who had been on break for 1:45. I told her the midshift controllers could work. There is a common practice in this area that the midshifts do not work when they come in. So the first one does not plug in for two hours, and the
other one closer to 5 hours. Several of the supervisors enable this by plugging in instead of doing their job of supervising the area. She said she needed time anyway, so I allowed it. I believe she is the one who initiated the recall procedures sector to sector. When the ZLC supervisor called I had no idea what he was talking about since the proper coordination of having the sup (now me) call TMU (also me) and coordinated through the ZLC T MU to recall the airspace. This airspace affects 3 centers, and ZLC is the focal to deal with the scheduling agency. Also, this airspace goes hot on the requested times, not real time when aircraft are cleared into the airspace. In this case, Aircraft Y was in the airspace, so that isn't relevant. After the supervisor in Area 4, currently working sector 20, had talked to Aircraft Y and had him maintain an altitude above the medevac, there was a belief they could use this airspace. We have no control or coordination of this airspace and that is incorrect. Issues that lead to this event: Recall procedures are to coordinate through T MI-J. I was staffing TMU and no request was made. I was staffing Area 4 OS and no request was made. Area 4 OS was in the sector. Common practice to not make the mids plug in. Mid shifters had been here and hadn't worked. Another employee had been on break for over two hours and the sup was working. The supervisor should not have been plugged in. This would have allowed proper supervision of the area and proper coordination procedures for the recall of the airspace in a timely manner. In this instance, the supervisor, working sector 20, either didn't know or didn't care that she couldn't use that airspace so I highly doubt the airspace deviation would have been avoided. Narrative: 2 Powder River 4 MOA/ATCAA was active from 15000 feet to FL260. Aircraft X departed requesting FL190 for the final. I climbed them to 14000 feet on the departure clearance and after I radar identified them I asked if they wanted a small turn to avoid the airspace or if they wanted to go underneath at 14500. They mentioned the airspace could be recalled for them because they were a medevac. I told my sup who called ZLC. Shortly thereafter Aircraft Y checked on with the sector above my airspace (sector 20). Sector 20 owns FL240 and above in that area. Sector 20 asked the aircraft if they were able to maintain at or above FL200 in the ATCAA. They replied in the affirmative. Sector 20 asked Aircraft Y if they were the only aircraft in Powder River 4, and they said yes. Sector 20 and myself are the only sectors that are able to approve entry into Powder River 4. I climbed Aircraft X to FL 190 at that time and then sector 20 received a call from someone, I don't know whom. Saying the MOA/ATCAA was still active from 15000 feet to FL260. I turned Aircraft X to the right but was already within 3 NM of the ATCAA boundary. After a few minutes ZLC called sector 20 and told them the ATCAA was ours FL 190 and below, I then cleared Aircraft X direct [destination airport] at that time. Powder River Training complex has numerous ATCAAs and MOAs, all of which are scheduled to go active at a certain time whether aircraft are in them or not. They also stay active long after aircraft have left. Many times controllers will not get a 10 minute warning that the airspace is going active. The active times are listed on the TV on the wall, but if workload increased it can catch you off guard. It does not go active the same way as all of the other MOAs or ATCAAs in ZMP area 4. Recommendations : 10 minute warning of Powder River ATCAAs/MOAs going active.
Airspace goes cold the moment participating aircraft exit. Recalling the airspace should be easier than a long line of phone calls that takes 10 to 15 minutes. Recalling the airspace should be as easy as asking the participating aircraft to maintain certain altitudes, with their acceptance it is available for Medevacs, aircraft deviations, emergencies etc. Narrative: 3 Aircraft X was a Medevac aircraft that departed enroute to an airport [to the south]. The aircraft's route took it through active military airspace that is wholly contained in our airspace but control of that airspace is the responsibility of ZLC. The airspace was active from 15000 feet to FL260 (my sector was from FL240 and up). The controller prior to me had told me that Aircraft Y was in the airspace and was probably going to exit the airspace early. I could see Aircraft Y in the airspace orbiting at FL 240. The medevac departed and wanted to stay on course and climb to FL190. I initiated the call to the ZLC controller to see if we could recall part of the airspace, (from FL 190 and down), to accommodate the medevac aircraft. The controller told me he would call his military and get back to me. After at least 5 minutes, Aircraft Y called me and said he would like to exit the airspace in about 10 minutes. At that time, I asked Aircraft Y if he could maintain the block FL200- FL 260. Aircraft Y replied that he could, so I assigned it. I asked him if he was the only aircraft in the airspace and he said he was. I called the Operations Manager to relay this information and was told that we still needed to have ZLC release it, (which I knew). I then saw that the controller who was working the medevac had started to climb the aircraft. I let the controller know that we still didn't have control of the airspace and he should turn the aircraft. I think about a minute or two later, (maybe less), the ZLC controller called me and said we had control of the airspace from FL190 and down. Shortly after this, the Operations Manager came down and advised us that we had control of the airspace. I notified him the ZLC had already called me prior to him coming down to the area to let us know. I was not working the medevac aircraft but I believe that he was probably closer to the airspace than the required mileage. To my knowledge, we are supposed to be able to recall this airspace within 5 minutes time, which I do not believe occu rred. I don't believe that it is very efficient to have a military airspace that is wholly contained in our area to be controlled by another facility. I was talking to the aircraft that was delaying in the airspace and yet we needed to wait for approval from the other center before we could recall part of the airspace. Also, to my knowledge, the airspace was allowed to time out about 45 minutes later instead of recalling the airspace when the aircraft was clear. I feel that this could make other aircraft (besides the medevac) get turned large distances out of their way for an airspace that isn't being used. I don't feel that this is a good way to treat our users. I have seen medevac aircraft have the same issue (affecting their route/altitude) before. Synopsis Several ATC Controllers reported that an aircraft was allowed to get less than the required distance from an active ATC Assigned Airspace. A Controller had used incorrect procedures to allow the aircraft to proceed toward the airspace.
Time / Day Date : 201605 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZLA.ARTCC State Reference : CA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 28700 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZLA Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Large Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Cruise Flight Phase : Climb Airspace.Class A : ZLA Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.Center : ZLA Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Light Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Ambulance Flight Phase : Climb Airspace.CIass A : ZLA Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person. Facility : ZLA.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Enroute Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1351591 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Communication Breakdown.PartyI : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew
Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.Flight Crew : Captain Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1352610 Human Factors : Time Pressure : Workload Human Factors Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Communication Person : 3 Reference : 3 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1352634 Human Factors : Time Pressure Confusion Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Communication Person : 4 Reference : 4 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.FIight Crew : Captain Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 35000 Experience. Flight Crew. Last 90 Days : 60 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 4500 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1352525 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown. Partyl : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew
Person : 5 Reference : 5 Location Of Person.Aircraft : Y Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 25000 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 150 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 250 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1352529 Human Factors : Time Pressure Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Excursion From Assigned Altitude Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Detector.Automation : Aircraft RA Detector. Person : Flight Crew Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 An Air Taxi checked in north bound climbing to FL230 out of approximately FL180. I climbed the aircraft to FL270 and received the read-back. I stopped them at FL270 because there was traffic west bound at FL280. When the Air Taxi was approaching BLH, I called traffic to both Air Carrier and the Air Taxi, clearly stating that the Air Taxi could expect higher when clear of that traffic. From watching the Falcon I saw that the Air Taxi climbed from FL 265 to FL275 busting their assigned altitude. At the same time, another aircraft was checking in on the far left side of my radar scope, so I did not notice the altitude violation. The Air Taxi climbed to FL279 and asked for higher. I then again recalled the traffic and during the transmission I realized that the Air Taxi was now at FL279 and not their assigned FL270. I quickly keyed up again and climbed the Air Taxi to their requested final altitude of FL370 with an expeditious rate. Then I descended the Air Carrier to FL260 to regain separation and assigned an expeditious rate. At this point the aircraft were about 8 miles apart, but converging. During this time the Air Taxi began to descend
because I am guessing at some point they realized their mistake. It probably happened sooner, but there is a delay in the radar data, so I was working with old information. Very shortly the Air Carrier stated they were in an RA climb. I then told the Air Taxi to immediately turn 30 degrees to the left. I clearly lost my 5 mile/ 1000 ft separation requirement and at this point I was just trying to keep the aircraft safe and prevent a collision. From the information I gathered from the Falcon, at the closest point the aircraft were about a mile and 100ft apart. I did not give the Air Taxi the brasher because I was quite shaken at this point, but the next controller did. If the Air Taxi would have just followed instructions to begin with, none of this would have happened. Narrative: 2 Level at FL280, ATC advised us that we had traffic, an Air Taxi at 10 0'clock and that he was restricted below us to FL270. I heard the Controller advise an Air Taxi that he had traffic at I o'clock, an Air Carrier at FL 280, and to expect higher when clear. Shortly afterward I heard the Air Taxi request a higher altitude. The Controller responded with "I see you blew your altitude, climb and maintain FL370". The controller then cleared the Air Taxi to "expedite to FL370". We then received a clearance to descend to FL 260 and to "expedite all the way down". I selected FL260 in the altitude window and selected Level Change to ensure an idle descent. I also noted traffic low to my left on the TCAS that was less than 1,000 feet below us and climbing in very close proximity to us. I asked my First Officer (FO) to confirm our descent clearance with ATC and received a TCAS TA almost immediately followed by a "CLIMB CLIMB CLIMB" RA. I immediately disconnected the autopilot and auto throttles and complied with the TCAS cues, and my FO advised ATC we were complying with a TCAS RA and climbing. The controller then issued an immediate 30 degree left turn to the Air Taxi. By now it was pretty hard to not see the Air Taxi streaking across our wind screen climbing like a homesick angel. TCAS finally declared "Clear of Conflict", received clearance to maintain FL280 and proceeded without further incident. I believe that in this case the TCAS placed us in closer proximity to the Air Taxi. Once we had visual contact with the traffic it was obvious that we weren't even close to out- climbing it, and even though we were following a TCAS climb directive, the other aircraft out-climbing us is what cleared the conflict. Narrative: 3 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Narrative: 4 The flight crew's understanding of clearance at time of first TCAS TA was climb to FL370, direct destination and the Autopilot was maintaining flight control of the aircraft. As we climbed thru approx. FL 250, LAX Center asked if we had an air carrier traffic in sight approximately 15 miles north east at FL280. We responded that the aircraft is in sight. At that point two things external to this event happened 1) the cabin temperature became very warm and 2) the navigation computer indicated not enough fuel to make destination. Since the aircraft was known to be full of fuel this became a secondary concern. The patient however, was very temperature sensitive and I (the PIC) went Off the radio momentarily to deal with this problem. After finishing with temperature issue (approx 1-2 min) and as I was coming back onto the radio we got a TA (Traffic, Traffic) alert, we were thru approx. 27,000 feet MSL and climbing approximately 1,800 FPM, in my opinion we
would not adequately clear the traffic who at this time was approximately 8 or 9 miles way so I stopped the climb (by the time the climb stopped we at approx. 27,900 MSL) and initiated a shallow descent. The TCAS TA resolved as we started a descent. My First officer (SIC) transmits: .requests a higher altitude", he probably should have advised center about the TA descent, instead of the subsequent need for to continue the climb to a higher altitude, but what he said is what he said. As I descended the controller said: "Looks like you busted your altitude" a moment later the controller asked "Say your altitude" as the question was asked we were leveling at appropriately 27,200, and the First Officer (SIC) responded "..is leveling FL270", a very short time later the controller issues a climb clearance: "..expedite your climb to FL370" which we read back. A expedited climb was initiated (an expedited rate of climb at this altitude, when establish, would be about 3,000 FPM) as the climb was established and approximately 27,600 MSL we got a "climb RA". I went immediately into emergency climb mode (max power, high angle of attack, converting any excess energy into altitude) resulting climb rate approximately 4,500 FPM. The TCAS RA resolved about 20 seconds later resulting in the two aircraft separated by approximately 2 to 300 feet vertically and about 1 mile horizontal separation. The time duration of this entire event was approximately 3 minutes. It appeared that the air carrier also had a TCAS climb command RA which I feel extended the resolution time somewhat. In retrospect and in my opinion the controller should not have issued us the expedited climb clearance which caused us to climb into the RA in the first place, after the initial TCAS TA was resolved. Narrative: 5 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis ZLA Controller and two flight crews describe a serious airborne conflict which developed after an air taxi inexplicably climbed from their assigned FL270 into an air carrier at FL280. The aircraft at their closest were 100 feet vertically and about I mile horizontally.
Time / Day Date : 201604 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : EC135 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Ambulance Flight Phase : Final Approach Airspace.CIass E : ZZZ Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Rotorcraft Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1350521 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Other / Unknown Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Dispatched to ZZZ for patient pickup for an inter-facility hospital transfer. I was monitoring the ZZZ Unicom frequency at least 30 nm out. I made an inbound call at approx. 10 nm out and another one at approximately 4 nm out. No response was heard from any aircraft. Upon arrival at the airport and on short final for landing to the ramp for shutdown, I heard someone on a handheld radio say "Helicopter approaching, we have jumpers in the air". My crewmember up front and I scanned the area and saw one single jumper at approximately 1500 AGL with the chute deployed. It was not in a position to be a hazard to our final approach so I continued on short final and landed to the ramp and shutdown. [A military organization] was conducting jump operations in a C-130 at the time of our arrival. At no time from approximately 30-40 nm out until arrival did I ever hear any calls on Unicom from a C-130 and did not hear any "jumpers away" calls. In addition there was another helicopter that approached from the same direction and landed a few minutes after I did. I talked to him and he said he never heard any "jumpers away" call. I also heard other small fixed-mng aircraft on the Unicom as I was approaching. The first call I heard regarding any jump operations was from the person on the handheld radio on short final. After shutdown, a representative from the [military] unit came and talked to me. I explained to him what I explained above. He mentioned he would have to submit a report to the FAA since there was a jumper at 1500 AGL with the chute deployed. After the medcrew returned in the ground ambulance we loaded the patient. The jump operations had ceased at that time and we departed without incident and completed our medical mission. In addition to monitoring the Unicom frequency and making the inbound position reports and calls as I did, I would query on Unicom if there were any aircraft in the area and specifically any jump aircraft in the area. Synopsis EC135 medevac Pilot reported encountering unannounced jumpers in the air on arrival to an uncontrolled airport.
Time / Day Date : 201604 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Altitude.AGL.SingIe Value : O Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : EC135 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Mission : Ambulance Flight Phase : Parked Maintenance Status. Maintenance Type : Scheduled Maintenance Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved : Work Cards Component Aircraft Component : Oxygen System/GeneraI Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Improperly Operated Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person : Company Reporter Organization : Contracted Service Function.Maintenance : Technician ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1350154 Human Factors : Fatigue Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : Pre-flight Result.GeneraI : Flight Cancelled / Delayed Result.General : Maintenance Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1
While the aircraft was out of service for other scheduled maintenance I replaced the gaseous 02 bottle assembly that was due for its 36 month. After going through all the leak checks and purging procedures as outlined in the procedures for the system. I safety wired the manual shut off valve in the closed position on the regulator, it should have been safety wired in the open position. During the time the aircraft was back in service, the 02 system quantity showed full. Five days later I was contacted by the pilot stating the 02 system was full but no flow to the service ports. I was unable to quickly determine what was wrong and I was thinking while the medical interior was going back in the aircraft one of the clear flex 02 tubing was pinched, which would require a removal of the overhead and side walls of the cabin interior. We had the spare EC135 at our base so I made the call to move the crew over to that aircraft. I spent the rest of my time that night preparing the spare aircraft. I reach the end of my duty day after the spare aircraft was ready. I passed on the 02 problem on to the second base mechanic. He went thru the system and determined that the manual shut off was in the closed position. (Note in the [company's aircraft configuration] the manual shut off is not used as with other STC's AKA pilots shut off.) Two days later I came back to work and started to work the ongoing air conditioning MEL. During the course of the day I started to put the aircraft back together, I read the pass down note of where my partner left off and realized my mistake. I safety wired the manual shut off valve to the on position, verified 02 flow and installed the cover to the bottle. I have been here for about 2 months. During this time frame both of the mechanics have average over 60 hours a week dealing with scheduled and unscheduled maintenance on this aircraft with very little off time. A week before my mistake on the 02 system, I was in the hospital for a day and a half for a heart issue and I am currently on a 30 day 24 hour heart monitor. Not using this as an excuse but it is a contributing factor. It was an honest mistake made by me. All leak checks and purging was checked prior to the safety wiring of the valve. I would suggest that instead of just reading what is on the indicator and calling it good that the medical crews do a quick flow test daily as part of their routine. It was 5 days from the mistake with the safety wire and from the time it was found, 2 of those days was with the aircraft back in service for medical duty. Synopsis During scheduled maintenance on a Helicopter ECD-EC135 a mechanic safety wired an 02 bottle manual shutoff valve in the closed position when it should have been in the open position.
Time / Day Date : 201604 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : MBB-BK 117 All Series Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Mission : Ambulance Flight Phase : Final Approach Airspace.Class G : ZZZ Component Aircraft Component : Service/Access Door Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Improperly Operated Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1348316 Human Factors : Other / Unknown Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Other / Unknown Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Aircraft : Aircraft Damaged Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 After a 2 hour four legged patient flight on approach back to [the medical center], the inspection side of the hydraulic cowling came open and struck the blades. Two flight crew members were on board. I can only assume my initial and subsequent pre-flight walk arounds were deficient. Do not allow other pre-flight factors to distract one from security of cowlings inspection. Synopsis The Captain of a medevac helicopter flight reported that an external inspection access door opened in flight and struck the rotor blades. The flight landed safely and there were no injuries reported.
Time / Day Date : 201604 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : MBB-BK 117 All Series Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Mission : Ambulance Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Direct Airspace.CIass D : ZZZ Component Aircraft Component : Generator Drive Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Rotorcraft Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1345784 Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Detector. Person : Flight Crew Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Result.FIight Crew : Inflight Shutdown Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 My shift started at XA30 and I showed up twenty minutes early to do my preflight and paperwork. Upon completion of those two things, I briefed the crew on weather and went over engine failure and single engine landings as my daily safety topic. The tones went off shortly after XA30 for an inter-facility transfer. We accepted the flight. The flight to the hospital was as planned with no issues. I departed the hospital with two medical crew, a baby (patient) and patient's mother on board. Shortly after leveling off at altitude the GEN OVHT caution appeared on the number one side of the CAD. I shut the number one generator off and after one minute the light was still illuminated, so I announced to the passengers that I need to do a single engine shutdown and I then did the single engine shut down of the number one engine. I watched my torques limits closely and beeped up my rotors. I remained within the normal One Engine Inoperative limits during the whole procedure. Once everything was under control I ask the nurse to read me the GEN OVHT emergency procedure to make sure I hadn't missed a step. All was good. The crew made the call to [company] and I contacted approach control and let them know I would need to come in and land at the airport. They cleared me to land on Runway XX and I requested the taxiway instead. They approved me as requested. I transferred to the tower frequency and continued inbound to the airport. Along the way I briefed the crew but they were already aware of the procedure because this exact emergency procedure was discussed in our safety topic of the day briefing. I communicated with the mother to make sure she understood what the landing was going to be like. At 200 feet I let the passengers know that we needed to have a sterile cockpit. I maintained 40 knots until I was within 12 feet and started to slow up. I knew I wouldn't have enough power to hover because my hover power at the hospital was over 70% torque. When I reached an airspeed in which I could no longer bring in power I gently lowered collective and we completed the flight with a running landing. I went into the OEI (One Engine Inoperative) transient just before touchdown for a couple seconds. Everyone was 0k and the patient was transported by our other base. After landing, I walked around the helicopter to inspect for any signs of fire and didn't find anything. Synopsis MBB BK-117 pilot reported they had a GEN OVHT caution light which required a shutdown of the number one engine. Successful landing was made at an airport.
Time / Day Date : 201603 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Government Make Model Name : Agusta Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Ambulance Flight Phase : Initial Climb Route In Use : Direct Airspace.CIass D : ZZZ Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Make Model Name : Any Unknown or Unlisted Aircraft Manufacturer Flight Phase : Initial Climb Airspace.CIass D : ZZZ Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Government Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification. Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 3200 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 25 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 200 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1343602 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness
Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown. Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.Conflict : NMAC Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Result.Air Traffic Control : Separated Traffic Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Near miss occurred when departing from the hangar at a tower controlled airport. Sequence of events leading up to the near miss are as follows: aircraft requested taxi and departure to the NE. Tower acknowledged and cleared the aircraft to taxi as requested. Aircraft taxied out, completed takeoff checks and departed. After takeoff ATC Tower made immediate evasive maneuver calls to prevent a collision with other traffic that had recently departed. This close call was a clear case of a pilot requesting a clearance and hearing the clearance that he was expecting, not the clearance that was actually given. Tower gave a taxi clearance and a taxi clearance only. At no time did the tower say "cleared for takeoff". The pilot was expecting the Tower to issue a taxi and takeoff clearance in one transmission, but only a taxi clearance was given. [Aircraft] took off without ever hearing or receiving a "cleared for takeoff" in their clearance. Synopsis AW-139 helicopter pilot reported an NMAC when they took off without clearance.
Time / Day Date : 201603 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 350 Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Jet/Long Ranger/206 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Ambulance Flight Phase : Final Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.Class B : ZZZ Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Make Model Name : Helicopter Flight Phase : Initial Climb Airspace.CIass B : ZZZ Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.FIight Crew : Rotorcraft Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 30 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 4000 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1343584 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events
Anomaly Conflict : NMAC Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.Horizontal : 400 Miss Distance.VerticaI : 50 When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 On final to [hospital] a helicopter flew right in front of us flying NW. I do not believe they were on the radio. We were talking to ZZZ Approach, Medcom on FM, and our ZZZ Operations (air-evac). We were less than 1 mile from landing. We had been handed off from approach to advisory but remained on ZZZ approach to monitor traffic. We think they lifted from within the surface area but are not sure of that because we didn't see them till they were right in front of us between us and our landing area. We deviated left and down to avoid and after landing on the helipad called ZZZ approach/tower on the phone to discuss. Synopsis BH206 pilot reported an NMAC on final to a hospital helicopter pad.
Time / Day Date : 201603 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : SMO.Airport State Reference : CA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 1000 Environment Weather Elements / Visibility : Haze / Smoke Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : 5 Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : SMO Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Skylane 182/RG Turbo Skylane/RG Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Personal Nav In Use.VOR / VORTAC : SMO Flight Phase : Final Approach Airspace.CIass D : SMO Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.FIight Crew : Flight Engineer Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 20000 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 15 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 200 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1341241 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Overshoot Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Crossing Restriction Not Met Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Crew
Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Chart Or Publication Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 On final vector into SMO I was given a quick vector to intercept final, descend from 6000 feet to 4000 feet and cleared for the approach. As a result, I crossed BEVEY about 800 feet high and fast. As I descended I went to full flaps and noticed my vacuum compass was 20 to 30 degrees off (probably due to the low power setting). More time was wasted confirming my lateral position. Upon contacting tower I was cleared for the straight in approach and cleared to land. Runway was in sight. A short time later tower gave me a low altitude alert and indicated that I was supposed to cross CULVE at 1120 feet. It is impossible to cross CULVE at 1120 feet (circling MDA) and land straight in. I was lower than I wanted to be when I got the alert from tower. Distraction due to high rate of descent and compass error did not help. ATC has to find a better way to bring in traffic without the ram dump approach. It would also help if an LPV approach was available. Synopsis C182 pilot reported being admonished by the SMO Tower Controller for crossing CULVE below 1120 feet during the VOR Approach to SMO in VMC. The VOR Approach is a circle to land only approach with an MDA of 680 feet.
Time / Day Date : 201603 Local Time Of Day : 0001-0600 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 500 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility Light : Night Ceiling.SingIe Value : 3000 Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Helicopter Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : None Mission : Ambulance Flight Phase : Takeoff Route In Use : Direct Airspace.CIass D : ZZZ Component : 20 Aircraft Component : GPS & Other Satellite Navigation Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 4000 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 35 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 1000 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1339538 Events
Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Other / Unknown Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Aircraft : Equipment Problem Dissipated Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : ATC Equipment / Nav Facility / Buildings Primary Problem : Ambiguous Narrative: 1 Loss of reception on both GPS units when departing the helipad. Ground units use this pad as an LZ due to very few options available in that area. Loss of reception occurred at XA:40 and GARMIN 530 unit gave me the error message and reacquired satellites in about 10 sec and the GARMIN 430 unit took about 3-4 minutes to reacquire satellites. Reception was regained and no other anomalies. Synopsis Helicopter pilot reported a loss of GPS signal on both Garmin units during departure from a hospital. The outage lasted 10 seconds on the G530 and three to four minutes on the G430.
Time / Day Date : 201602 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.VisibiIity : Ceiling : CLR Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi 10 Make Model Name : Citation V/Ultra/Encore (C560) Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Ambulance Flight Phase : Climb Component Aircraft Component : Aileron Trim System Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.FIight Crew : Captain ASRS Report Number.Accession Number . • 1330540 Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Troubleshooting Analyst Callback : Completed Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Function.Flight Crew : Captain
ASRS Report Number Accession Number : Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Troubleshooting Events 1330541 Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action Result.FIight Crew : Overcame Equipment Problem Result.Flight Crew : Returned To Departure Airport Result.Flight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 WX was good so PIC accepted flight, first flight of day checks were completed, med crew was loaded, engines started. All before taxi checks were completed and we got a taxi clearance, all taxi and before takeoff checklist was completed. Takeoff roll was normal, and through VI and Vr everything felt normal, however what I initially noticed was that it was increasingly hard to hold runway heading which was what I was assigned. The yoke control pressure to keep wings level was becoming so hard that it took both hands to accomplish the task, I then checked the trim indicators to see if they were out of whack but the indicators were showing centered or very close. I asked the PNF who was also the PIC to feel the controls, we had a positive exchange of controls then he agreed that there was a control issue at which point he visually checked both the aileron and rudder trim indicators that appeared normal. Once he had control tried to turn the trim knob and it felt bound but didn't want to overpower it because I was not the PF and could not experience any inputs that I made. We requested to turn back and ATC asked what the issue was and we told them we were having control problems. We turned back to the field and switched controllers. I checked engine gauges to make sure everything else was normal and it was, the PIC was struggling to keep wings level and we discussed if it was harder to hold the faster we went and he said he thought it was, which made me again check the trim indicators but again they looked normal. We were given a visual approach which we accepted, then discussed how we wanted to bring down flaps and gear being cautious not to exacerbate the situation. While on final the PIC again tried adjusting the trim and got movement and the rolling right tendency went away and a normal landing was conducted. Callback: 1 The reporter believes that several issues were involved in this incident. First, maintenance worked on the aircraft the day prior and this was the first flight after. Second, the reporter does not fly the CE560 very often and was not familiar with the force required to adjust the aileron trim on this aircraft. And last the aileron trim indicator was mis-indexed so the gauge did not reflect that the ailerons were out of trim. Maintenance was able to quickly re-index the aileron trim gauge. Narrative: 2
[Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis CE560 flight crew experienced a strong rolling tendency and aileron trim binding during initial climb then the controls are passed to the PIC in the right seat. The crew elects to return to the departure airport and the PIC is able to adjust the aileron trim to neutralize the rolling tendency prior to landing.
Time / Day Date : 201602 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : HWD.Tower State Reference : CA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 1400 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Night Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : HWD Aircraft Operator : FBO Make Model Name : Small Aircraft, High Wing, 1 Eng, Fixed Gear Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Phase : Final Approach Route In Use : None Airspace.CIass D : HWD Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.TRACON : NCT Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Helicopter Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Mission : Ambulance Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass D : HWD Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.FaciIity : HWD.Tower Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Local Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1329046 Human Factors : Distraction Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Human Factors : Confusion : Situational Awareness Human Factors Breakdown.PartyI : ATC Communication Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC
Events Anomaly Airspace Violation : All Types Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 Aircraft Y flying northbound on a NCT sector tag penetrated Delta airspace without coordination. Converging traffic advisories issued to Aircraft X on HWD frequency on final about Aircraft Y converging. Called NCT to tell them to turn Aircraft Y to the east to clear Delta airspace. The controller stated that he had traffic in sight but never initiated a point out to transition through Delta airspace nor bothered to call HWD to advise that his Aircraft Y had Aircraft X in sight. Familiarize NCT controllers about point outs prior to entering Delta airspace or remain completely clear of it. Synopsis HWD Tower Controller reported of Class Delta airspace violation. The Controller working the Approach Control position was called by HWD Tower Controller and asked about the violating aircraft. Converging traffic was being worked by the Tower Controller. Overlying TRACON Controller never asked for a point out or advised that visual separation was being used.
Time / Day Date : 201601 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : FXE.Tower State Reference : FL Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 500 Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : FXE Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Light Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Ambulance Flight Phase : Final Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.CIass D : FXE Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.Tower : FXE Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Small Aircraft, Low Wing, I Eng, Fixed Gear Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Landing Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.FaciIity : FXE.Tower Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Supervisor / CIC Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1327145 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Conflict : Ground Conflict, Less Severe : 20.0
Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Person / Animal / Bird Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Executed Go Around / Missed Approach Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Primary Problem : Environment - Non Weather Related Narrative: 1 This is a series of events involving the coyote problem on the field. Coyote observed on runway, Med evac on approach was issued a go around by Local Control. Security was summoned to chase the coyote off the field. A pilot on the ramp reported a coyote, security vehicle was summoned to chase the animal off the field. FAA Vehicle eastbound on taxiway reported a coyote just north of the approach end of the runway. The vehicle chased the animal into the treeline. Aircraft Y landed and reported almost hitting a coyote on landing roll, the animal cut right in front of him on the runway. A coyote was spotted near a taxiway near the runway. Security was summoned to chase the animal off the field. A coyote was spotted west of a runway, security was summoned to chase the animal off the field. This has been going on since last summer or fall. The population of coyotes is growing as we often see them in pairs or small groups now. Airport operations does not seem to be able to achieve the appropriate permissions to handle the situation, e.g. trap or shot, from the state or local government. This problem is getting progressively worse and aircraft safety is at risk daily. The above list is a typical day of dealing with the coyote problem on the airport here. Get the presiding authority, whomever that may be, to issue the order to handle this escalating safety problem and capture or kill these animals before there is an accident. Synopsis FXE Tower Controller reported a recurring problem with coyotes. An aircraft was issued a go-around due to a coyote on the runway. A landing aircraft reported almost hitting a coyote on the runway.
