ASRS Database Report Set Flight Attendant Reports Report Set Description. .....A sampling of reports from Flight Attendants. Update Number.. .....32.0 Date of Update .................................................... .Februmy 28, 2018 Number of Records in Report Set.............. Number ofNew Records in Report Set ...............48 Type of Records in Report Set.. .........For each update, new records received at ASRS will displace a like number of the oldest records in the Report Set, with the objective of providing the fifty most recent relevant ASRS Database records. Records within this Report Set have been screened to assure then- relevance to the topic.
National Aeronautics and Space Administration Ames Research Center Moffett Field, CA 94035-1000 TH: 262-7 MEMORANDUM FOR: Recipients of Aviation Safety Reporting System Data SUBJECT: Data Derived from ASRS Reports The attached material is furnished pursuant to a request for data from the NASA Aviation Safety Reporting System (ASRS). Recipients of this material are reminded when evaluating these data of the following points. ASRS reports are submitted voluntarily. The existence in the ASRS database of reports concerning a specific topic cannot, therefore, be used to infer the prevalence of that problem within the National Airspace System. Information contained in reports submitted to ASRS may be amplified by further contact with the individual who submitted them, but the information provided by the reporter is not investigated further. Such information represents the perspective of the specific individual who is describing their experience and perception of a safety related event. After preliminary processing, all ASRS reports are de-identified and the identity of the individual who submitted the report is permanently eliminated. All ASRS report processing systems are designed to protect identifying information submitted by reporters; including names, company affiliations, and specific times of incident occurrence. After a report has been de-identified, any verification of information submitted to ASRS would be limited. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration and its ASRS current contractor, Booz Allen Hamilton, specifically disclaim any responsibility for any interpretation which may be made by others of any material or data furnished by NASA in response to queries of the ASRS database and related materials. Linda J. Connell, Director NASA Aviation Safety Reporting System
CAVEAT REGARDING USE OF ASRS DATA Certain caveats apply to the use of ASRS data. All ASRS reports are voluntarily submitted, and thus cannot be considered a measured random sample of the full population of like events. For example, we receive several thousand altitude deviation reports each year. This number may comprise over half of all the altitude deviations that occur, or it may be just a small fraction of total occurrences. Moreover, not all pilots, controllers, mechanics, flight attendants, dispatchers or other participants in the aviation system are equally aware of the ASRS or may be equally willing to report. Thus, the data can reflect reporting biases. These biases, which are not fully known or measurable, may influence ASRS information. A safety problem such as near midair collisions (NMACs) may appear to be more highly concentrated in area "A" than area "B" simply because the airmen who operate in area "A" are more aware of the ASRS program and more inclined to report should an NMAC occur. Any type of subjective, voluntary reporting will have these limitations related to quantitative statistical analysis. One thing that can be Imown from ASRS data is that the number of reports received concerning specific event types represents the lower measure of the true number of such events that are occurring. For example, if ASRS receives 881 reports of track deviations in 2010 (this number is purely hypothetical), then it can be known with some certainty that at least 881 such events have occurred in 2010. With these statistical limitations m mind, we believe that the real power of ASRS data is the qualitative information contained in report narratives. The pilots, controllers, and others who report tell us about aviation safety incidents and situations in detail — explaining what happened, and more importantly, why it happened. Using report narratives effectively requires an extra measure of study, but the knowledge derived is well worth the added effort.
Report Synopses
ACN:1510746 (lof50) Synopsis 3767 Flight Attendant reported that their company's reconfigured B767 cabin layout adversely affects safety, efficiency, and crew rest. ACN: 1505619 (20f50) Synopsis Two air carrier Flight Attendants reported an encounter with severe turbulence marked by a lack of communication from the flight deck. ACN:1505311 (30f50) Synopsis 8737 Flight Attendant reported that the entry door slide was not disarmed when customer service attempted to open the door. ACN:1505073 (40f50) Synopsis A330 Flight Attendant reported landing safely after experiencing a compressor stall in the Number I engine. ACN: 1503827 (50f50) Synopsis ERJ-170 Flight Attendant reported the flight crew was unable to open the aft galley compartment that contained the demo equipment and AED. ACN•. 1503275 (60f50) Synopsis A319 Flight Attendant reported a strong smelly sock odor followed by a headache and difficulty speaking. ACN•. 1501161 (70f50) Synopsis 3787 Flight Attendant reported that the aircraft ventilation system is being neglected causing dirty cabin air. ACN: 1500260 (80f50) Synopsis
Flight Attendant reported a cabin scenario with overpowering fumes in the cabin after engine start of a turbojet. ACN: 1500063 (90f50) Synopsis A321 Flight Attendant reported smelling fumes in the aft galley causing two flight attendants to become ill. ACN: 1500004 (100f50) Synopsis Air carrier Flight Attendant reported that Federal Air Marshals were allowed to board prior to the crew boarding. ACN: 1499322 (11 of50) Synopsis A319 Flight Attendant reported all four cabin crew members experienced physical symptoms after exposure to fumes on the aircraft before departure. ACN•. 1490887 (120f50) Synopsis 3767 Flight Attendant reported concern with other flight attendants lack of knowledge of the flight deck emergency call function on the interphone. ACN: 1490885 (130f50) Synopsis 3767 Flight Attendant reported having a conversation with the Captain regarding the use of the fasten seatbelt sign throughout the entire flight. ACN: 1489674 (140f50) Synopsis Air Carrier Flight Attendant reported having a reaction to fumes coming from a passenger carry-on bag, and questioned the safety of relocating the bag to the checked baggage compartment of the aircraft. ACN•. 1487202 (150f50) Synopsis 3787 Flight Attendant reported an issue with fasten seat belt sign usage with a particular crew.
ACN: 1486218 (160f50) Synopsis 3737 Flight Attendant reported that the aircraft was shut down, on multiple occasions, prior to deplaning all the passengers. ACN: 1485934 (170f50) Synopsis CRJ-200 Flight Attendant reported an APU fire due to excess fuel just before pushback that resulted in all passengers exiting the aircraft. ACN: 1485933 (180f50) Synopsis CRJ-900 Flight Attendant and flight crew reported that pre-landing notice was not heard in the cabin and the service cart was not stowed when the landing gear was deployed. ACN: 1484160 (190f50) Synopsis A B737-900 Flight Attendant reported that the flight attendants experienced headaches and became cognitively foggy and fuzzy during flight. Shortly after the flight landed, reportedly, they were all administered oxygen and all exhibited elevated carbon monoxide levels in their blood. ACN: 1484156 Synopsis A321 Flight Attendant reported she wanted to reseat a passenger who was using a cane from the emergency exit row, but was overruled by customer service. ACN:1479548 (21 of50) Synopsis A Flight Attendant and flight crew in an MD-80 reported that the forward entry door slide deployed after opening the door. ACN:1479057 Synopsis Air carrier Flight Attendant reported feeling the effects of toxic fumes in the cabin shortly after parking at the gate. ACN: 1477537 (230f50)
Synopsis 3737 Flight Attendant reported a rear galley compartment opened during landing ejecting its contents. The latch had been properly locked. Maintenance indicated they had received numerous calls about the latches on this type of galley. ACN•. 1476304 (240f50) Synopsis A Flight Attendant reported an incident with a Captain acting strangely and making passengers uncomfortable. ACN•. 1473801 (250f50) Synopsis A319 flight attendants reported a dirty sock odor and fumes in the cabin. After block in the cabin crew reported exposure to a fume event and went to an urgent care facility. Maintenance inspection discovered an oil leak. ACN•. 1473485 (260f50) Synopsis Air carrier flight attendant reported that items were missing from the aircraft's medical kit. In addition, it was noted that some commonly used medical testing devices were not included in the air carrier's medical kit inventory. ACN: 1471810 (270f50) Synopsis A flight attendant reported that the company issued uniform made her ill. ACN: 1471480 (28 of50) Synopsis Flight Attendant reported being informed later that one of the main gear tires exploded and damaged the fuselage. The reporter was upset for not being informed of the situation that was unfolding while on the aircraft. ACN: 1471209 Synopsis Deadheading Flight Attendant reported the screening process for emergency exit row passengers which only requires an affirmative answer to the question "are you willing and able to assist in an emergency?" The passengers in question were obviously not able. ACN•. 1469496 (30 of50)
Synopsis A Boeing 737 Flight Attendant reported the cockpit door closed before she could get in to relieve the First Officer for a lav break. ACN: 1469075 (310f50) Synopsis B737NG Flight Attendant, departing SNA, reported receiving the "prepare for takeoff" PA from the Captain while the demo tape was still playing and informed the Captain. The Captain took off with some flight attendants standing. ACN•. 1467879 (32 of50) Synopsis A Flight Attendant reported a group of men enroute to military boot camp were hungry, but had only cash so she swiped her credit card for their food purchases and received their cash in exchange. ACN•. 1466443 (330f50) Synopsis A Flight Attendant reported being informed that the tail of the aircraft was on fire during deplaning. The Flight Attendants commanded the remaining passengers to evacuate and leave their belongings. ACN: 1465939 (340f50) Synopsis A Boeing 737 Flight Attendant reported smoke coming out of an oven in the galley. ACN: 1465083 (350f50) Synopsis Air carrier Flight Attendant reported a complaint with company procedures that permit pilot crews to shut down all power after parking at the gate with passengers still deplaning. ACN: 1463630 (360f50) Synopsis 3737 Flight Attendants reported questioning Company Operations and the Captain's decision to depart with a group Of intoxicated passengers. ACN: 1462669 (370f50) Synopsis
Flight attendants on an international flight reported their company forced them to remain working beyond their legal duty time due to an extended ground delay. ACN: 1462074 (380f50) Synopsis Q400 Flight Attendant reported that as they started service they heard a loud noise that sounded like decompression that came from the cargo compartment. ACN: 1462045 (390f50) Synopsis Air carrier flight attendants, with a Mexico City destination, reported an emotional service monkey on board the aircraft which caused the plane to be quarantined. ACN: 1460889 (400f50) Synopsis A flight attendant reported that the 4R door arming lever was not fully in the armed position. Maintenance and the Captain believed that the door was arming normally. The flight attendants were not happy. ACN: 1459683 (41 of50) Synopsis Two A320 flight attendants reported an encounter with a passenger and their efforts to keep her calm and in her seat until the aircraft landed safely. ACN: 1458285 (420f50) Synopsis A Flight Attendant reported a verbally abusive and apparently emotional unstable passenger became belligerent and aggressive. ACN•. 1457717 (430f50) Synopsis Flight Attendant reported airline's A321s are inadequately configured with jumpseats, seatbelts, and shoulder harnesses to provide safety for three flight attendants working in the aft of the aircraft during turbulence. ACN•. 1457564 (440f50) Synopsis
Flight Attendant reported that her company's A321s have only two aft cabin jumpseats, but during flight three flight attendants work in the aft. When turbulence was encountered a Flight Attendant was without a jumpseat and harness. ACN•. 1456573 (450f50) Synopsis Flight Attendant reported an allergic reaction to the new company supplied uniform. ACN: 1456202 (460f50) Synopsis B737 Flight Attendant reported that a passenger vomited on the previous leg and was not adequately cleaned. ACN: 1454582 (470f50) Synopsis B767 Flight Attendant reported a fume event during takeoff that caused a strong fuel smell to enter the midcabin. The Captain was called and he indicated that a malfunction had occurred during starting, but had now been corrected. Several passengers became ill. ACN: 1454261 (480f50) Synopsis EMB-175 Flight Attendants reported a passenger became ill during flight. Issues with multiple onboard medical devices were noted. ACN: 1448749 (490f50) Synopsis A319 Flight Attendant reported a dirty sock smell during takeoff. ACN: 1447744 (500f50) Synopsis 8737 Flight Attendant reported a through passenger was left in the cabin with no flight attendants on board.
Report Narratives
Time / Day Date : 201712 Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B767 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Component : 1 Aircraft Component : Cabin Furnishing Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Design Component : 2 Aircraft Component : Galley Furnishing Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Design Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Cabin Activity : Safety Related Duties Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.Flight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1510746 Events Anomaly.No Specific Anomaly Occurred : All Types Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate Result.General : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1
The reconfigured 767 is a disaster waiting to happen in an emergency. No cross-aisle for speedy evacuation. Jumpseats are blocked the entire time while service is going on with glass carts, trash cart, and liquor cart. Turbulence only takes seconds to hit and while we are trying to park all three carts on both sides with such a small galley and carts that do not work well, since the wheels of those carts do not turn the right way, it will be a tragic event for crew members. There are no tie downs to hold carts in place. The other issue is no cross aisle. All passengers with seat assignments on the right hand side have to go through the galley. The same time we are performing our service with pre- departure, hanging coats, passing out menus, passing pajamas and the list goes on, while the galley FA is trying to check the galley items, brewing coffee, working with the pilots about their meal choice, etc. Passengers fighting to get to their seats. We are told, and practice year after year, if exits are blocked, to go across. With the narrow aisles and seats which you cannot possibly cross because of the design, where will the passengers cross over all bunched in the galley trying to evacuate. The only place passengers can cross over is in the middle of the aircraft. This plane was approved by the FAA The two lavatories in B/C are in close proximity to the cockpit. Passengers needing to use them will situate themselves in the galley area where we are trying to do our service passing trays, getting drinks, closing and opening the ovens while trying not to hit them accidentally with all moving items such as [galley] carts, setting two up, pouring coffee or tea etc. Instead of them waiting for the lavatories in their area left or right side they decide to play back and forth in the galley area waiting to see which lavatory opens first. We don't have time for that. Should we delay the service until they all go to the lavatories? They don't want to wait in the narrow aisle and inconvenience their seat mates, but wait in the galley interrupting our service. The other issue is who decided on placing our crew rest area aft [in coach]. With all the noise from the galley area, passengers talking, who in their right mind can get a restful rest? Fatigue will be playing a huge role in this. Crew members are poked through the curtain, passengers sit on the armrest awaiting a free lav. Sometimes passengers take it upon themselves to open the curtain thinking a lav is hiding behind the curtain. All these issues need to be investigated and a quick change both for passengers and crew members. Put back the cross aisle and bring the crew rest area to the front of coach. would love someone to fly with me on a full flight and see what we now have to work with. This is unacceptable and not appreciated by [Company's] front line employee. Happy employees make for a stronger airline and a profitable one. The correct solution can be found. Synopsis B767 Flight Attendant reported that their company's reconfigured B767 cabin layout adversely affects safety, efficiency, and crew rest.
Time / Day Date : 201712 Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Cruise Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.Flight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1505619 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Attendant Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.FIight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1505620 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Attendant Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Illness Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : In-flight Result.General : Physical Injury / Incapacitation Result.FIight Crew : Regained Aircraft Control Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Weather Narrative: 1 Human Factors Weather After pre-landing service we were securing our galleys when we encountered turbulence. What appeared to start quickly as moderate escalated into SEVERE. Coffee pots were spilling, trays falling out of carts, passengers screaming. The five of us working began yelling for passengers who were waiting for restrooms to HOLD ON! Fasten seat belts! Those passengers couldn't possibly get to their seats because walking was impossible. I tried personally to get from the corner of the galley counter to my cross-aisle jump seat but was unable to do so. I held on to the counter top but the next drop took me almost to the ceiling. The worst turbulence event that I've experienced in years. There was no announcement from the cockpit whatsoever. Seatbelt announcements were made in both English and Portuguese. A medical event followed. [One] passenger seated experienced a full on panic attack. Symptoms progressed to be similar to a petite mal seizure. He was attended to by the doctor while we checked on passengers as turbulence would allow. There was absolutely no contact from our pilots regarding the event or after. No Flight Attendant Check in announcement, No follow up with the crew whatsoever to see how we OR the injured passenger was doing. When asked about it, the event was completely minimized and disregarded. They mentioned that we had to descend through a storm and that "it happens sometimes". Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis Two air carrier Flight Attendants reported an encounter with severe turbulence marked by a lack of communication from the flight deck.
Time / Day Date : 201712 Local Time Of Day : 0001-0600 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8737-800 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Component Aircraft Component : Escape Slide Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Improperly Operated Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Door Area Cabin Activity : Deplaning Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.Flight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1505311 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Physiological - Other Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Fatigue Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Attendant Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Ground Personnel Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Other / Unknown Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : N When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action
Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 The IL door was opened on a 737 aircraft in the armed position after the station agent received the thumbs up signal to open the door from myself. Subsequently the slide pack dislodged fell part way from door. I grabbed the door to stop further deployment and told agent to back away. I then called captain and told him of situation. He instructed me to get everyone away for safety and came out to assist. He took over my place holding the door and had station personnel call for maintenance. He calmly let passengers know what was happening and remained at door until slide pack was removed to a safe distance and we could deplane passengers. Background of the day and offered as an explanation and not as an excuse, for the fault lies with myself. Several things happened that day to not only distract my focus but also to degrade my physical condition and awareness which led to my subsequent failure. On [a flight] earlier that same day when responding to someone hitting their flight attendant call light repeatedly while I was seated I stood up from jump seat to see what was required. They had turned it off by then and when I went to sit back down in my jump seat it had returned to its spring loaded upright position and instead of sitting in my jump seat I fell to the floor. The rest of the day was filled with discomfort as a result. I tried to fill out an incident report immediately however I was made to understand from the company website that I would need to use an actual computer as the reports were not supported by my handheld device. Dwelling on that and actively trying to physically avoid my number three as he was not feeling well and I didn't want to come down with something as I was already starting to feel unwell. The last few days had included many days of long flight hours and between the physical and mental strain of that and the stress of starting to get sick, I initiated actions that led to the incident. Specifically at the time of the incident I initiated all call procedures to disarm doors and deplane passengers. The flight attendants 2, 3, and 4 all accomplished their disarming per policy. At this time I also realized that the carts needed sealing with blue liquor seals. My door however was still armed. At that point, my number 3 flight attendant pointed to my door and in an attempt to shake me from my non focused state firmly said, "you need to disarm your door." I acknowledged him, turned towards my door and Immediately gave the thumbs up for the station agent to open door IL even though it was in the armed position. Between all the issues fighting for my focus at that time, I did not personally use the appropriate disarming procedures including monitor and challenge on my door even after I had crosschecked door IR. I obviously did not have my focus where it belonged. I was hurting, trying to keep from getting more sick and feeling the effects of fatigue after several long flight hour days. While all of these things are true, the door was opened and slide fell out because I incorrectly initiated the process.
I understand the importance of monitor and challenge procedures and I let my pain, distraction and illness take away my focus. The reality of the situation and the danger I put the station agent in is a big reality check that I will not soon forget. My job, when opening or closing a door always involves the monitor and challenge procedures and I intent to always make sure to using them completely to always succeed in my job when opening and closing aircraft doors. Synopsis 3737 Flight Attendant reported that the entry door slide was not disarmed when customer service attempted to open the door.
1-—4--111-4' Time / Day Date : 201712 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : A330 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.Class A : ZZZ Cabin Lighting : Low Crew Size Flight Attendant. Number Of Crew : 9 Component Aircraft Component : Turbine Engine Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Cabin Jumpseat Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.Flight Attendant : Current Experience. Flight Attendant. Total : 44 Experience. Flight Attendant.AirIine Total : 44 Experience. Flight Attendant. Number Of Acft Qualified On Experience. Flight Attendant. Type : 100 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1505073 Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Detector. Person : Flight Crew Were Passengers Involved In Event : N
When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Overcame Equipment Problem Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 We were about 2 and a half hours out from landing. There were two loud noises. It sounded like something was loose In the cargo area, and was banging around, as though cargo was unsecured. Then a shudder occurred. The Captain was asleep in the pilot bunk. The first officer called me on the interphone and asked me to wake the Captain. I woke him immediately. He said it felt like a compression failure had occurred. Unbeknown to me the engine had stalled. They then restarted the engine (number one). We continued without incident. No one was hurt or very concerned. After a very quiet landing, we noticed the runway was lined with emergency vehicles. The pilots informed us that the engine had stalled about five minutes before we landed, and they had [advised ATC]. No one in the cabin, passengers or cabin crew knew about it until then. All in all it was rather quiet and we were all fine. The pilots did an outstanding job. Synopsis A330 Flight Attendant reported landing safely after experiencing a compressor stall in the Number 1 engine.
Time / Day Date : 201712 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Ground : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : EMB ERJ 170/175 ER/LR Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Taxi Cabin Lighting : High Component Aircraft Component : Galley Furnishing Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Galley Cabin Activity : Safety Related Duties Cabin Activity : Boarding Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.Flight Attendant : Current Experience. Flight Attendant.AirIine Total : O ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1503827 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Time Pressure Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Attendant Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy
Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Detector. Person : Flight Attendant When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate When Detected : Routine Inspection Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action Result.Flight Crew : Returned To Gate Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 I had arrived and boarded the plane prior to report time and I had told the gate agent to board 25 minutes before departure, the captain dismissed my statement and instead told the gate agent to board 10 minutes earlier. I then boarded the plane and introduced myself to the captain. He made it a point to tell me that he wanted to get out as soon as possible and beat the snow. When doing the security check I made the captain aware that I was unsuccessful at opening the aft galley compartment that contained the demo equipment and AED. He came to the back with me and tried for himself. He was also unsuccessful at opening it. He said is it 0k that that you just see the yellow thing. I told him that if I can't get in I can't check to see if my equipment is functioning. He said he didn't want to get maintenance out because it would cause delays and he wanted to get out as early as possible because of the coming snow. I told him I understood and reiterated that the "heart machine" is in there along with the demo equipment. He made it known that he understood and was like "yeah that's what's blocking the door." He kept asking me the same questions in different ways, asking me if I was 0k with flying without it opening. I responded, this is the first time this has happened to me, I'm new. I'm telling you what the issue is and I can't do what I'm supposed to do in regards to the equipment so I'm not sure what else I'm supposed to tell you. I'm looking to you. He responded "it'll be fine" we can go like that. When the other FA came on I told her that I would have to read the demo announcement and the captain came out to let us know that we would be boarding now (way before standard 25 minute boarding time). Still not done prepping in the back I stopped talking and went to the back to finish. He then came to the back and was asking if I was ready to board, and mentioned how we didn't want to be stuck on the ground for 2 hours. I told him I was but was asking what the word and flight time was, because we were never briefed. We boarded as normal and when the door had closed I reminded the other FA that I would have to read the demo announcement. She asked why and I explained that I can't get the door open but the captain told me it was 0k. She came to the AFT and tried to open the door herself and was also unable to open it. She asked me if I was comfortable flying like that. I told her I don't know, I told the captain the issue and he said it was 0k so I assumed it was 0k. She said "no, it's not 0k" and called the flight deck. The captain seemed to be confused by what she was telling him and I stepped in and reminded him of the issue that I had just previously discussed with him. He told us to try again and if we still can't get it open we would return to the gate. After numerous attempts we called and told him we still couldn't get it open. We got to the gate and the captain came directly out of the flight deck and began to tell the gate agents how we had to call maintenance, that "we were back there..." looking at it and we can't fly like that and we had fixed it before but it most of slipped out again. This was not true, we had not fixed it at all.
I believe the captain would advise me the best, safest and most compliant way so I ignored my own judgement and allowed him to make the final call. I'm glad the senior flight attendant wasn't afraid to speak up for the both of us. One shouldn't be afraid to question the captain's call and should make sure to discuss (CRM) everything with the whole crew before boarding. Synopsis ERJ-170 Flight Attendant reported the flight crew was unable to open the aft galley compartment that contained the demo equipment and AED.
Time / Day Date : 201712 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Environment Light : Daylight Ceiling : CLR Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : A319 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Approach Cabin Lighting : High Number Of Seats.Number : 128 Passengers On Board. Number : 100 Crew Size Flight Attendant. Number Of Crew : 5 Component Aircraft Component : APU Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Experience. Flight Attendant. Total : 30 Experience. Flight Attendant.AirIine Total : 30 Experience. Flight Attendant.Number Of Acft Qualified On Experience. Flight Attendant. Type : 90 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1503275 Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Illness Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Smoke / Fire / Fumes / Odor Detector. Person : Flight Crew
Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : N When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Returned To Departure Airport Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 On gradual descent, a very strong "smelly sock" odor occurred. The worst one in my 30 years. On arrival at the gate, I asked the FO (First Officer) about the odor and if they smelled it. He said yes and it was because the APU was turned on during descent. We were then to go on to do a turn. All 3 FA's (Flight Attendants) said they felt odd. I said I could not pinpoint it but my head and body felt Off. Half a headache and trouble speaking. I told the next flight deck about the situation. We took off and after about 15 minutes the Captain called me and asked if we still smelled the odor. I said yes. A moment later he made a PA saying we were returning to due to [a mechanical problem] and possible oil leak. We landed and were met by supervisors asking how we felt and if we're going to continue to go on to do the turn. The Captain said he did not feel safe going back on the plane. He had a headache and felt bad. He went to the chief pilot and then was going to the clinic. All 3 FA's felt dizzy, half a headache, and just felt off. Supervisor told me my bottom lip was quivering when I was trying to speak. All 3 FA's declined to work the turn and all went to the clinic. After the clinic, I stopped at ER to tell them what happened. They had me call poison control. It took a full 2 days for me to return to somewhat normal. Synopsis A319 Flight Attendant reported a strong smelly sock odor followed by a headache and difficulty speaking.
Time / Day Date : 201711 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : FO Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Daylight Ceiling : CLR Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8787-900 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Cabin Lighting : Medium Number Of Seats.Number : 271 Passengers On Board.Number : 150 Crew Size Flight Attendant. Number Of Crew : 16 Component Aircraft Component : Air Conditioning Distribution System Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Design Problem : Improperly Operated Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Cabin Activity : Boarding Cabin Activity : Deplaning Cabin Activity : Safety Related Duties Cabin Activity : Service Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Experience. Flight Attendant. Total : 34 Experience. Flight Attendant.AirIine Total : 7 Experience. Flight Attendant.Number Of Acft Qualified On : Experience. Flight Attendant. Type : 100 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1501161 Human Factors : Troubleshooting Human Factors : Communication Breakdown 10
Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Attendant Communication Breakdown. Party2 : Ground Personnel Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.FIight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Other / Unknown Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : Routine Inspection When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate Result.General : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Primary Problem : Company Policy Narrative: 1 This flight is operated daily and return, utilizing a B787. During conversations with [company] management, it has come to my attention that the company has not set up any protocol for proper cleaning of the aircraft ventilation system and the top side center line overhead bin areas. This is resulting in filthy dirty cabin air intake vents throughout the aircraft cabin. It is also showing up as filthy dirt on the top side of the cabin center line overhead bins. This problem currently involves all 3787 aircraft in the fleet. I believe I am suffering both severe nasal and sinus distress as a result of the poor cabin air and the lack of proper cabin cleanliness on this fleet of airplanes. A member of management admitted in written correspondence that the company flies the airplanes as many hours a day as it can and that there is currently no protocol for cleaning the air vents and the top side of the overhead bins. They stated they are aware of the problem would take steps to clean the aircraft involved. This has not happened in months since the problem was first brought to their attention. Further, I believe the problem involves the aircraft cabin air filtration system and should be further investigated to insure that proper ventilation and clean cabin air is being provided to both passengers and crew working on these flights. I believe the company should be forced to correct the problem. They need to be called out on the lack of a proper maintenance program and a new protocol must be established to properly clean the effected aircraft. I have twice written [Company Representatives] and received replies from [representatives] working in the [company] headquarters in the cabin maintenance section. That person stated the problem was unacceptable and would be addressed. I have not seen any actions taken to correct the problems. Please take steps to identify the problems, correct the deficiencies and sanction the company for its lack of effective maintenance programs. Synopsis 8787 Flight Attendant reported that the aircraft ventilation system is being neglected causing dirty cabin air.
Time / Day Date : 201711 Local Time Of Day : 0001-0600 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Large Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Taxi Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Cabin Activity : Safety Related Duties Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.Flight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1500260 Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Illness Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Smoke / Fire / Fumes / Odor Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : Taxi Result.GeneraI : Flight Cancelled / Delayed Result.GeneraI : Physical Injury / Incapacitation Result.Flight Crew : Returned To Gate Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 We pushed back from the gate and the A, C, K [Flight Attendants (FA)] all smelled stinky socks. As the push back continued the smell got stronger and the cabin crew started to have reactions and got really sick. We returned to the gate and deplaned passenger. The
cabin crew sought medical attention. I was admitted to the hospital for further testing of my reactions to the fumes. I armed my doors and we pushed back from the gate. I walked to the front galley. We all smelled a dirty sock smell. I got into position to do the safety demonstration at row 8, I was the K Flight Attendant. During push back from the gate the dirty sock smell got stronger and my throat started burning and I was coughing a bit, which prior to push back I had not experienced. Before finishing the safety demo, the C and I walked to the front of the aircraft and asked the A if she was experiencing any reactions, she said yes. She then called the B FA and told him what was happening. We decided to finish the demo, as K I walk from row 8 to 16 performing the demo. My reactions got worse and I was hearing passengers coughing. I realized we were having a fume event and immediately went to the front of the aircraft and told the C and A and to call the captain to let him know. We returned to the gate and I walked to doors 3L/R to disarm. While I was waiting for all call I started feeling nauseous and dizzy. I heard more passengers coughing, a little boy in particular in 19C was coughing uncontrollably. The A made the all call announcement, while on the phone I told her more passengers were coughing and I didn't feel well from the fumes and we needed to deplane. I went to the front of the aircraft doors IL/ R to get some fresh as we were deplaning. By then I was dizzy and shaking inside, my heart was racing, and had a terrible headache. I immediately 24/7 daily ops and they answered the phone. I told them we were having a fume event and asked what the procedures were. He told me he had to talk with someone and he would call me back. We walked up the jet way into the terminal and the captain took a report from the cabin crew and then left. My reactions seem to get worse by the minute. We decided to go to baggage claim where we could catch transportation. They called the A back and told her he had transportation for us and they would be there in 20 min. We all were so sick we decided to take a taxi to the nearest hospital. While in the ER I started having chest pains and they admitted me for more testing. While I was in the hospital I started having tremors. They started in my abdomen and right foot. At one point my whole body was tremoring. My chest pains got worse. The testing performed came back abnormal and the Cardiologist ordered a heart catheterization. I was released. Synopsis Flight Attendant reported a cabin scenario with overpowering fumes in the cabin after engine start of a turbojet.
Time / Day Date : 201711 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Weather Elements / Visibility Light : Daylight Ceiling : CLR Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : A321 : Turbulence Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass A : ZZZ Cabin Lighting : Medium Number Of Seats.Number : 181 Passengers On Board. Number : 181 Crew Size Flight Attendant.Number Of Crew : 4 Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Cabin Activity : Service Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Experience. Flight Attendant. Total : 34 Experience. Flight Attendant.Airline Total : 34 Experience. Flight Attendant.Number Of Acft Qualified On Experience. Flight Attendant. Type : 10 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1500063 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Smoke / Fire / Fumes / Odor Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Illness Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : N
When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Landed As Precaution Result.Flight Crew : Diverted Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 2 Flight Attendants in aft galley complained of fumes coming thru 4R area. They complained of dizziness, light-headed, headaches, and confusion. Captain asked me to check on them, I did, had them take 02. I felt it was carbon monoxide poisoning. Captain felt necessary to divert. 2 affected Flight Attendants were met by EMTs, went to ER. Upon landing, 3 passengers said they smelled fumes, eyes were burning, but did not want medical attention. Mechanics said they replaced the R fuel pac. Synopsis A321 Flight Attendant reported smelling fumes in the aft galley causing two flight attendants to become ill.
1-— '-fil'Ä'E Time / Day Date : 201711 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : LFPG.Airport State Reference : FO Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Cabin Activity : Boarding Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1500004 Human Factors : Time Pressure Events Anomaly.FIight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Security Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1
As the crew arrived at the gate, later than scheduled, I was one of the first to make it down the jet bridge. As I was descending I saw 4 people getting secondary screening in an area off an elbow in the jet bridge. As I continued down to the aircraft door I witnessed an airport security person escorting a passenger off the aircraft. I was surprised as the plane had been on the gate for nearly an hour, this could not be a passenger still deplaning on arrival. As I entered the aircraft to stow my belongings I noted that the FAMs were already on board. I recognized this as a violation of FAR 121.391, minimum crew on board before boarding. I then went back up the jet bridge to inform our Security/Gate Agent that a person had been boarded without any crewmembers on board. Agent said that they were secondary screening some passengers and that the passenger was not a security issue. In an effort to expedite boarding they were put on the jet bridge and told to wait. The passenger somehow made it down, on to the plane in spite of personnel in place. The CA and Purser arrived moments later and I informed them. The CA discussed the situation with the lead security agent and the purser and it was agreed not to have to re screen the plane to expedite departure. First problem I see is the pressure to expedite boarding to make up for a delay. Second, allowing passengers onto the jet bridge while the plane is being serviced by many airport workers. I assume the passenger saw the FAM's go onto the Aircraft and assumed it was okay to do the same. The airport security person at the door may have thought she was another FAM, or may have been distracted and had his/her back turned as the passenger walked on. Synopsis Air carrier Flight Attendant reported that Federal Air Marshals were allowed to board prior to the crew boarding.
Time / Day Date : 201711 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : A319 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Cabin Jumpseat Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.Flight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1499322 Human Factors : Physiological - Other Events Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Smoke / Fire / Fumes / Odor Detector. Person : Flight Attendant When Detected : Pre-flight Result.General : Work Refused Result.GeneraI : Physical Injury / Incapacitation Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 Crew boarded AC to begin preflight and we immediately noticed a foul, strong, and pungent smell. All 3 cabin crew members (#1, #2, and myself the #4) smelled the smell
and suffered symptoms relating to toxic fume exposure. The gate agent also came on board and said it smelled like strong paint thinner to him. I (#4) went up into the airport to get away from smell and there I met with the pilots who were waiting to go down onto AC. I told them of the smell/odor and we all went down to AC. I went back on board to gather my things and we all got off AC because the smell/fumes/odor was so strong. Our AC was taken out of service and we were given another gate and AC. I was later informed that our BAD AC had an oil leak into the APO. These events and FUME ISSUES need to be taken more seriously. Even days later myself and the #1 are still not feeling well. In fact the #1 has been suffering brain fog and I have been experiencing chest tightness. If we the Flight Attendants are supposed to be the SAFETY onboard then the FAA or someone needs to be doing MORE to insure when we are exposed that we are properly assessed and cared for.... ...but instead we are intimidated by policies that chastise us if we are affected by these events. We are put into positions where we feel we have no choice but to keep flying or lose money. In essence we are slowly being poisoned to ill health, or possibly death. WHAT WILL HELP? How about not waiting till these AC have visible HAZE or SMOKE in the cabin to do C CHECKS! Or perhaps let's insist the C Checks be done more often than they are! Oh and let's put PALL filtration systems onboard and sensors to monitor the filters progress and quality assurance. Synopsis A319 Flight Attendant reported all four cabin crew members experienced physical symptoms after exposure to fumes on the aircraft before departure.
Time / Day Date : 201710 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B767-300 and 300 ER Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Component Aircraft Component : Cockpit/Cabin Communication Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Design Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Cabin Activity : Safety Related Duties Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant In Charge Qualification.FIight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1490887 Human Factors : Training / Qualification Events Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Attendant When Detected : Pre-flight Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1
During my preflight briefing with flight attendants, I reviewed how this particular aircraft used interphone handsets similar to B777 aircraft. Therefore, to place a Flight Deck emergency call, FAs must dial number 4 - no Alert button. To my amazement, only ONE out of six were familiar with this process. The others requested an actual demonstration on how to operate the interphone in an emergency. After my briefing, FAs quickly understood the expected actions and required no additional instructions. This report is being submitted for track/trending. Additionally, for consideration this task be added to future training modules during recurrent Training and consideration of actual handset mock-up in training. This appears to be a "familiarity" human factors issue, NOT inability to perform a specific task. Synopsis B767 Flight Attendant reported concern with other flight attendants lack of knowledge of the flight deck emergency call function on the interphone.
Time / Day Date : 201710 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B767-300 and 300 ER Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.Flight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1490885 Events Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : N When Detected : Pre-flight Result.General : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 During my preflight briefing with the captain, we reviewed the use of the seat belt sign while inflight. This was of particular importance since turbulence was also forecasted enroute. I asked the captain about his particular use of the seatbelt sign. He stated that he would probably leave it on for the entire flight. I told him this was certainly his call being
the PIC, but suggested leaving the sign on unnecessarily could place FAs in jeopardy. He responded with, "...really?" I reminded him the fasten seatbelt sign is usually our first indication of pending turbulence. If the sign is continuously on, then we are unable to take advantage of the advanced warning. I also reminded him about FAR 121.311, and the implications related to disregard of a lighted passenger sign. His response, "I really don't like turning it on/off during a long flight, particularly at night." Again, I totally understood it was his call, but wanted him to be aware of my concerns. The entire conversation was positive and professional, and he appeared genuinely open to hearing my concerns. Please also reference my previous report, there are similar threads related to this topic. No further discussion regarding this topic occurred for the remainder of the flight. Interesting enough, the sign was used (as needed) during our flight. There were several times that it was cycled on/off, particularly due to pending turbulence. In fact, I thanked him after our flight. The purpose of this report is for track/trending, and to be forwarded to appropriate departments. In this particular event, I encountered a little more resistance regarding my concerns. However, it's also important to note the captain seemed very willing to consider my point and changed his initial approach. I genuinely feel my conversation educated him further about the risks related to leaving the sign on. It appears that some captains simply don't understand the full implications of unnecessary use of the FSB sign during flight (particularly flights over six hours and at night). Synopsis 3767 Flight Attendant reported having a conversation with the Captain regarding the use of the fasten seatbelt sign throughout the entire flight.
Time / Day Date : 201710 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Galley Cabin Activity : Boarding Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.Flight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1489674 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Attendant Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Illness Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Smoke / Fire / Fumes / Odor Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Hazardous Material Violation Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate Result.GeneraI : Flight Cancelled / Delayed Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 - Non Weather Related
Myself and the B Flight Attendant (FA) noticed an odor in the back of the AC (Aircraft) shortly after boarding started, halfway through boarding, we tried notifying the CA (Captain) several times to let him know about the odor and finally called the A FA because they were not answering the call in the flight deck. When the B was able to talk to the CA and voice our concerns they were told it was moth balls and that the smell had been up in the boarding area as well. When we asked if we could get some fresh air in the back galley by cracking the aft AC doors the CA said no. The smell continued to get worse and the B and myself started to experience irritation in our throats and noses we concluded to that we weren't okay pushing back until we knew for certain what we were smelling and/or causing the irritation. The B FA went forward to let the CA know along with the A FA at this point boarding was almost finished. Approximately 5 minutes after the B went forward to ask for an in-flight supervisor to come the plane, I was still in the aft galley of the aircraft, the D FA made their way back to see if they could smell what we were smelling, by this time my nose, eyes, throat and face were burning/itching, along with shaking hands. The D FA could smell an odor as well and I went forward to get some fresher air by the boarding door and also let the CA know my symptoms were getting worse. When I went into the flight deck to show him the type of reaction I was having he said someone is on the way. A CSA (Customer Service Agent) supervisor was the first to come to the plane, by this time I was also starting to experience flushing Of my facial skin and hands along with burning/itching on the front of my shins and continued shaking of my hands and arms. I stayed by the boarding door for the remainder of the time trying to get as much fresh air as possible. In flight supervisors, mechanics and some others came to the plane. A PA was made that a strong odor was being smelled in the back of the AC and that it smelled like moth balls if a PAX had an item in their carry on that they thought may be causing the odor to please ring the FA call button; someone in the back of the AC did ring their button and a carry on was identified where the odor was coming from. It was removed from the plane and put underneath as checked baggage. At this point I was still experiencing the same symptoms and pulled myself for safety reasons from flying the rest of my trip. Reserves were called to take myself and the B FA places. Once off the aircraft, fire/paramedics came to look both of us over. I was still experiencing symptoms, vitals were taken and when asked what we were exposed to, I could not answer that question because whatever was causing the reaction was not identified it was just put under in the belly of the AC. I was told that the symptoms I was experiencing were all consistent with being exposed to some kind of irritant. After the medics left we went out to see if fresh air would help it did help some but came to the conclusion that since we were unsure of what we had been exposed to we would like to be further evaluated. We were taken to the Medical Center per our request to be further examined. While there they took vitals, blood and had a physical examination. It was determined that whatever we were exposed to was causing an allergic reaction. I was treated and released. It concerns me that the bag was removed from the AC and just put under with all the other passenger luggage; we have NO IDEA what we were exposed to, was it even SAFE for this item to be in the belly of the AC; was it a hazmat item that could be a safety/security risk? Maybe the policy needs to be looked at regarding the removal or carry-on luggage and why it is being removed. Could we have potentially put other passengers and crew at risk? Synopsis
Air Carrier Flight Attendant reported having a reaction to fumes coming from a passenger carry-on bag, and questioned the safety of relocating the bag to the checked baggage compartment of the aircraft.
Time / Day Date : 201709 Place Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8787-900 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Cruise Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.Flight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1487202 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Attendant Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Other / Unknown Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Attendant When Detected : In-flight Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 During my outbound trip, noted captain's announcement to cabin regarding his intent to leave the FSB (Fasten Seat Belt) sign on for the entire 9 hours of flight. I mentioned to Purser, "is this routine for this captain?" Her response, "yes". I asked if she's discussed the risks with the captain regarding this practice. She stated, "no" but was open to me bringing it up with him. I told her that I would consider if the opportunity presented itself. Indeed, the FSB signed remained on for the entire duration of the flight.
On the return trip (prior to the captain's rest break), I had a productive conversation regarding this action (with the Purser in attendance). I asked "why"..., he explained his reasoning was that it created a more "quiet environment" and made the flight attendant's job easier by not having to perform compliance checks during the flight. I responded that may be true, but what about the safety implications and possible FAR violations? He responded with, "how so..?" I reviewed the details of FAR 121.311 and stressed that by keeping the sign on for the entire flight he was inadvertently encouraging passengers to disregard and violate a FAR. Additionally, his actions decreased the flight attendant's ability to recognize pending turbulence because the sign being switched on is one of the first signs of pending trouble. In the captain's defense, he was appreciative of my concerns and stated he would consider reevaluating his approach about the use of the FSB sign during flight. Synopsis 8787 Flight Attendant reported an issue with fasten seat belt sign usage with a particular crew.
Time / Day Date : 201710 Place Altitude.AGL.Single Value Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8737 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Cabin Activity : Deplaning Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Attendant : Other / Unknown ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1486218 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Attendant Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Ground Personnel Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Other / Unknown Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Attendant When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate Result.General : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I have worked many 737 flights where the aircraft is getting "shut down" for an overnight in the arrival station. When the flight deck shuts down the aircraft while we are still deplaning passengers and leaves for their layover, it leaves the cabin crew in an unsafe position due to the inability for us to use the cabin Inter phone or PA in the event of any
type of emergency in the aft section of the aircraft. In essence, we have no way to communicate with the front of the aircraft other than use of the megaphone. In addition, the cabin temperature rises rapidly once the air flow is discontinued making it a health/safety issue for the 100 or more passengers still waiting to deplane. Synopsis 3737 Flight Attendant reported that the aircraft was shut down, on multiple occasions, prior to deplaning all the passengers.
Time / Day Date : 201710 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Regional Jet 200 ER/LR (CRJ200) Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Component : 1 Aircraft Component : APU Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Component : 2 Aircraft Component : Emergency Exit Lighting Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Door Area Cabin Activity : Safety Related Duties Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant In Charge Qualification.FIight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1485934 Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Smoke / Fire / Fumes / Odor Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Other / Unknown Detector. Person : Ground Personnel When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate
Result.GeneraI : Evacuated Result.GeneraI : Flight Cancelled / Delayed Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 Flight Deck was getting ready to pushback and the APU shut down, all power in aircraft shut off. 2 times this happened. Ground crew communicated by signal there was a fire. Ground crew called the fire department, and banged on the door "open and get everyone off." Captain opened the flight deck and said "open the main door." There was white smoke coming from the aft of the aircraft. Captain said "Ground crew says get everyone off the aircraft." I could not/did not turn on any lights. I just stated, "Ladies and gentlemen, we have a situation and would like everyone to get off the aircraft. Leave everything, take only what is in your hand, and exit the aircraft. There are people here to help...." and they all got off. The APU "broke. " The white smoke and flames that the ground crew saw was excessive fuel. Our Captain went to talk to everyone in the gate and explained, what an APU is, that the smoke was excessive fuel, and that we will be able to safely take this aircraft. 2 passengers took a different flight because they were going to miss their international flight, 1 passenger declined to go. Everyone else went as scheduled. Synopsis CRJ-200 Flight Attendant reported an APU fire due to excess fuel just before pushback that resulted in all passengers exiting the aircraft.
Time / Day Date : 201710 Local Time Of Day Aircraft Reference : X 1201-1800 Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Regional Jet 900 (CRJ900) Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Final Approach Component : 1 Aircraft Component : Galley Furnishing Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Improperly Operated Component : 2 Aircraft Component : Cabin Address System Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant In Charge Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.Flight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1485933 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Attendant Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1486206 Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Communication Breakdown
Human Factors : Situational Awareness Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Attendant Person : 3 Reference : 3 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1486207 Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Attendant Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Other / Unknown Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Attendant When Detected : In-flight Result.General : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 [Another Flight Attendant] and I were working the flight together mind you [this person is a new hire] and [the other FA] was working AFT... she was in the last phase of her beverage service when the wheels of the aircraft were deployed. There was NO PHONE CALL AND NO CHIME OR ANYTHING.. so now safety is involved because if the beverage cart out and being around passengers. I had [the other FA] come back with the cart as quick as she could cause we were closer to landing and when she got back to the front Of the plane I had [the other FA] leave the cart in the front and I had told her to take her seat and I will put away the cart as quick as possible. I had a few passengers ask if I needed help but I was not going to put anyones safety in danger due to a pilot error. Narrative: 2 The safety department contacted me to inform me that a communication chime was not received or heard by the flight attendant in the landing phase. This may have led to a situation where a service cart could have been unsecured during landing. The flight was the last of four legs for the flight crew. The transition to this leg was expedited due to some delays impacting the arriving leg. As a result, the flight crew
boarded the airplane with the passengers already loaded and the Flight Attendants already onboard. The Captain deliberately stated on multiple occasions to me "No rush." To the best of my knowledge, all checklists, SOPs, Chimes, etc. where accomplished completely, deliberately and without rush. To my recollection, the arrival chimes where accomplished, however, there is no aural feedback in the flight deck that I could reference for their accomplishment. To the best of my recollection, an arrival message was given over the PA to the cabin, and all checklists, including chimes, were accomplished per SOP. Narrative: 3 [I was] informed that one of my flight attendants did not hear or receive a chime to inform them that plane was in the landing phase. A drink cart was left unsecured and the flight attendant may have not been seated and secured. Was not reported at the time to flight crew. As Captain this is my responsibility. Per standard LGA policy the plane was boarded with the FAs and pax prior to pilots arrival. A quick introduction and crew brief was conducted within the chaotic and confined space of the boarded airplane. Things went fairly normal and felt like a regular SOP flight. Could the chime have been missed, sure. To the best of my recollection all SOPs, checklists, and additional Descent and arrival announcements and chimes were completed. Synopsis CRJ-900 Flight Attendant and flight crew reported that pre-landing notice was not heard in the cabin and the service cart was not stowed when the landing gear was deployed.
Time / Day Date : 201709 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8737-900 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.Class A : ZZZ Crew Size Flight Attendant. Number Of Crew : 4 Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Cabin Jumpseat Cabin Activity : Service Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.Flight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1484160 Human Factors : Physiological - Other Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Other / Unknown Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Smoke / Fire / Fumes / Odor Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Illness Detector. Person : Flight Attendant When Detected : In-flight Result.General : Physical Injury / Incapacitation Result.FIight Crew : Landed As Precaution Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Environment - Non Weather Related
Narrative: 1 Near the end of our flight, The B and the D [flight attendants] were finishing cleaning up the main cabin from the inflight service. I was in the aft galley cleaning up/putting things away. They had used a cart to pick up trash, it was a full 900. They barely made it into the galley and [FA D] asked if we felt the plane moving. I think we all said it felt like negative G's. Then [FA D] said she felt like she was going to pass out as well as she was feeling like she was going to vomit. All lavs were full at that moment, so she sat down on jumpseat with a big grey bag. All three of us were experiencing headaches, an odd strange feeling in our mouths, and we were all cognitively foggy/fuzzy. [FA D] phoned the pilots and they descended quickly and had an expedited landing. Paramedics met the aircraft to take vitals. We were requested off the airplane as they were finishing up. As we were waiting for new gate/plane, we spoke with supervisor on line as well as scheduling. We were told that we were physically unable to continue flying that night and had to go to [a] medical center. Possible other events may have occurred, but that is all I could recall as we were not functioning cognitively at 1000/0. We were taken back in the ER immediately and given pure oxygen. Blood work ran per discharge paperwork. We all had elevated Carbon Monoxide poisoning levels. We all experienced the symptoms of headache, dizziness, weakness, confusion, (possible) fainting, nausea, (possible) vomiting, chest pain, shortness of breath, and we all had strange effect in our mouth. Synopsis A B737-900 Flight Attendant reported that the flight attendants experienced headaches and became cognitively foggy and fuzzy during flight. Shortly after the flight landed, reportedly, they were all administered oxygen and all exhibited elevated carbon monoxide levels in their blood.
Time / Day Date : 201709 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : CLT.Airport State Reference : NC Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : A321 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Cabin Activity : Boarding Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.FIight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1484156 Human Factors : Confusion Events Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Primary Problem : Company Policy Narrative: 1
I was the C Flight Attendant and I observed a passenger using an assistive device to walk (cane). She was limping as she walked and it was clear to me that in the event of an emergency that she would not be able to assist me with an evacuation. After observing this I approached her and said, "ma'am, I'm concerned that you may not be able to assist in an emergency and I'm going to have to re-seat you". She asked why, I told her "l noticed you limping and in order to sit in the emergency exit row you need to have full use of your legs and arms." She refused to be reseated and said that she had been allowed to sit in an emergency row while having her assistive device with her before. I then let the A know what was going on. We found exit seat criteria on our tablets before talking with a [customer service agent]. After speaking with several [customer service agents] and advising the crew service center along with Flight Attendant supervisors we were advised that it was 0k for this passenger who was limping and did not have full use of her legs (using an assistive device) was allowed to sit in the emergency exit row. The Captain explained that he did not have any authority to overrule the customer service agent. The customer service supervisor said that they were concerned about being sued for discrimination [under the] disabilities act and refused to move her based on that and not wanting to be filmed and out on social media. While inflight the passenger sitting beside her advised that the customer service agent asked her if she was able to operate the exit and she informed her that she had a knee Injury and that's the reason she had to use the cane In order to walk. This passenger went on to say that the customer service agent apologized to her for her inconvenience and gave her a voucher to be used her next flight. At no time did the customer service agent disclose to the crew that the passenger informed her that she was injured and had to use her cane to assist her with walking. Upon landing it was clear that this passenger needed the cane as she was limping even more than before when leaving the plane. FARS were not followed. The first manager that I spoke with did inform me that the tablet was my guidance and to follow procedure and that the Captain would have the final say. However another supervisor asked if I'd spoken with the lady and if she said she was able to operate the exit then there was nothing further that we could do. I just need clarification on the exit seat criteria. I take this very seriously as I've been in an emergency evacuation before. I'm not sure what needs to happen to not have this occur again. As a Flight Attendant I am trained to make assessments regarding the emergency exit rows and follow FARS as they are laid out in our tablets. I don't understand why we have the tablets if someone can override them. I followed procedure and the passenger refused to follow crew member instructions and was rewarded with a travel voucher without any regard given to safety. Synopsis A321 Flight Attendant reported she wanted to reseat a passenger who was using a cane from the emergency exit row, but was overruled by customer service.
Time / Day Date : 201709 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : MD-80 Series (DC-9-80) Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Component Aircraft Component : Escape Slide Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Improperly Operated Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Door Area Cabin Activity : Deplaning Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant In Charge Qualification.Flight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1479548 Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Situational Awareness Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1479747 Person : 3
Reference : 3 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1479768 Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Other / Unknown Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I am the number one flight attendant. We arrived to the gate, I made my "Verify/Disarm" p.a., as I looked out the window I noticed the jet bridge wasn't moving. I went over to the IR door and disarmed. Came back to the IL and remember moving the red strap to look out, still the jet bridge wasn't moving. I did my all call, I remember opening the closet door as well as the locking the pilot door in place and moving my sweater out of the jump seat. The jet bridge took a good while to move towards the plane, the captain even made a p.a. letting passengers know the agent was working on getting the jet bridge over to the aircraft. I didn't realize I hadn't fully disarmed the IL door, because the strap was pinned to the side and not across, when the agent knocked I gave a thumbs up. The agent opened the door, said it took them a while because she was training the new girl. The agent opened the door about halfway and the slide fell out of the door compartment, it didn't inflate automatically. The agents and I noticed the slide pack so I notified the captain right away. The captain moved the slide pack to Side and it inflated in the jet bridge, thankfully nobody was hurt. I was distracted by the jet bridge not moving, as we're not supposed to disarm until the jet bridge approaches the aircraft. As well as the red strap not being across the window. Make sure to follow the Monitor and Challenge procedures. Narrative: 2 Inadvertent slide deployment: Upon arrival at the gate, after the gate agent opened the main cabin door, the Number One Flight Attendant (FA) told the flight crew that the slide had fallen off the door. The Captain left his seat, and went into the cabin, while I remained on the flight deck. I then heard a loud hiss as the slide inflated. By the time I left my seat, the slide had been removed, along with the girt bar, and was stowed on the jet bridge out of the way.
I believe the door was never properly disarmed. It appeared that the gate agent who was moving the jet bridge was under instruction, and it took longer than usual to get the jet bridge to the plane. That may have caused enough of a break in habit pattern to cause the Number I FA to forget to disarm the door. Since you can only tell from the inside the cabin if an MD80 door is disarmed, I believe FA's should open the main cabin door on arrival. Narrative: 3 After block-in, I was informed by the Number 1 FA that the slide pack had fallen out of the door. When I went back I noticed the girt bar was still armed and I told everyone that this was a live slide and to get away from it. The slide did not deploy and I asked the Agent to call contract maintenance. Since maintenance was not close-by I decided to disarm the girt bar for safety reasons. Once the girt bar was disarmed, I placed it near the slide pack and noticed it was hissing. The slide deployed into the Jetway a few seconds later. The reason the slide pack fell out onto the jetway was that the slide was not properly disarmed at block-in and it operated normally for an armed slide. The reason it did not deploy immediately was that it fell onto the Jetway and not down the side of the aircraft. It took the station nearly 10 minutes to position the jetway for deplaning. The Number 1 FA told me later that she was trained to not disarm the door until the Jetway was in place. I was not in a position to observe why the slide was not disarmed once the Jetway was in place. I am unsure why the slide eventually deployed. It is important the all crew members manage distractions. It was an unusual situation to see the Jetway take so long to be positioned and with passengers waiting to deplane, it would be easy to become distracted. In retrospect, I would not touch the slide assembly in any way and wait for contract maintenance to arrive. I felt that disarming the girt bar was the safest action at the time but the slide did eventually deploy. The mechanics who arrived later to hang the new slide convinced me it was too dangerous to touch a slide in this situation and they are better trained to handle it. Synopsis A Flight Attendant and flight crew in an MD-80 reported that the forward entry door slide deployed after opening the door.
Time / Day Date : 201709 Place Locale Reference.Airport : IAD.Airport State Reference : DC Altitude.AGL.SingIe Value : O Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Cabin Jumpseat Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1479057 Human Factors : Physiological - Other Events Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Smoke / Fire / Fumes / Odor Detector. Person : Flight Attendant When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate Result.GeneraI : Physical Injury / Incapacitation Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Primary Problem : Ambiguous Narrative: 1 After pulling into the gate and before the doors opened (engines shut down) the area around [row] 21 filled with a very strong toxic chemical type fume. It caused me to cough, hold my breath and try not to breathe more in. My throat and nose burned hours after leaving the aircraft. I felt lightheaded and in the morning I felt fuzzy, I also had a headache. I got off the plane after the door was open to get fresh air. My colleague sitting across from me also noticed the air. These type of events are happening more and more on this aircraft since the summer started. I regret not writing up all events now. That will change. Synopsis
Air carrier Flight Attendant reported feeling the effects of toxic fumes in the cabin shortly after parking at the gate.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8737-800 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Landing Component Aircraft Component : Galley Furnishing Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Design Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Cabin Jumpseat Cabin Activity : Safety Related Duties Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.Flight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1477537 Human Factors : Other / Unknown Analyst Callback : Completed Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Other / Unknown Detector. Person : Flight Attendant When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Ambiguous Narrative: 1 Aircraft Human Factors Upon landing, a compartment in the rear galley popped open and its contents (soda cans) ejected into the rear galley and rear aisle area. Both Flight Attendant Y and myself were startled by this because we had been VERY thorough in latching and double checking the latches on the galley compartments as we secured the galley for landing. I had double checked visually and Flight Attendant Y had physically touched each latch before we took our jumpseats for landing. I take extra effort with this galley for this very reason. I and Flight Attendant Y observed that the latch on the compartment in question was still green (locked) and yet it had popped open during landing. We received two rings at this point as the noise had been noted from the two flight attendants in the front and they called to ask if everything was 0k. I explained what had occurred. The flight deck contacted mechanics and they reported promptly to investigate the situation. The mechanic stated that maintenance had received quite a number of calls about the latches on this type of galley. Either the bottom latch [is] failing, OR the top hinged part of the slide in galley type door [is] failing. I think the more traditional twist down red latches are easier to use. Callback: 1 The reporter clarified that the cabinet involved is at counter height and the doors are hinged at the top. Some doors slide into the cabinet to stow and some fold up and stick open magnetically. The Flight Attendant jumpseats are directly in front of the cabinets. Synopsis B737 Flight Attendant reported a rear galley compartment opened during landing ejecting its contents. The latch had been properly locked. Maintenance indicated they had received numerous calls about the latches on this type of galley.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.SingIe Value : O Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Person Reference : 1 Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Cabin Activity : Safety Related Duties Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Attendant : Other / Unknown Qualification.Flight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1476304 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Confusion Events Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Other / Unknown Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Attendant When Detected : Pre-flight Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 After boarding, we sat on the airplane for over I hour without pushing. Communication from Captain was very unusual and concerning. He gave one announcement saying we had minimal fuel and we might not make it to [our destination] and might divert. He further said we can't hold with the fuel onboard during his normal welcome onboard announcement. He made another announcement after sitting without any information that the temperature was too hot to take off and we would be pushing and just burning extra fuel to make sure we were within weight limits and then hope we make it to [the
destination]. This got a lot of passengers scared, nervous and simply wanting off the airplane. He brought lack of confidence in the safety of this flight. During the course of the next hour, we tried to get information from him and we couldn't. He did not want to speak with us and was very short when we told him people wanted to get off the plane. Cabin temperature was communicated to him that it was too hot and people were not comfortable. After nearly lh30m, he said the jet way would be coming back and he never told us the working crew. We had to call him and ask if we should disarm the door as we heard the jet way coming. Upon gate agent opening the door, he refused to open the door. Finally after several minutes of waiting, he had the FO open and told them to deplane. Then he locked the door again during the whole deplaning without communication. Service director came to the plane and tried to establish communication with the Captain, and was met with resistance as well and just had a bad attitude towards all working employees. He dismissed any and all attempts to establish communication with the inflight crew. He left the airplane and didn't come back till after it was time to re-board but never told us what was going on. I tried to let him know that I was going to be 20 minutes away from crew legalities and he dismissed it and said he had legalities too and never wanted to know the time. During the flight he called in the middle of our service and demanded we take out the passenger meals in order to cook his food. We told him we were in the service and it was going to take a few minutes to accommodate his meals in the oven since the passengers' food was cooked. He began to threaten myself over this, by stating his contract says he can eat whenever he says he wants it and we should stop all passenger food service to accommodate his meal heating. He said he would divert the airplane over this. That is concerning as he never communicated any special requests during his briefing or at any stage. His behavior was unprofessional and disrespectful. I did not personally feel safe at this stage. Crew Resource management was not followed and it was a disservice to our passengers. He also made ATC radio calls over the PA during the flight and dismissed us when we called to let him know. He terminated the airplane's power still with passengers onboard as well. Synopsis A Flight Attendant reported an incident with a Captain acting strangely and making passengers uncomfortable.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : A319 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Landing Flight Phase : Final Approach Airspace.CIass B : ZZZ Component Aircraft Component : APU Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant In Charge Qualification.Flight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1473801 Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Galley Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.FIight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1473803 Events
Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Smoke / Fire / Fumes / Odor Detector. Person : Flight Attendant When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 When we [were] leaving [the departure airport] and performing demo, we smelt a faint odor of dirty socks. It quickly disappeared once we started pushback. During the flight we did not smell any weird odors. When we were landing, wheels went down, and immediately we all three smelt a very strong dirty sock odor. I immediately grabbed a coffee pack and stayed as low to the floor as possible so as to not breathe in many chemicals. Once we performed our door duties, I called the captain to inform him I would be opening the doors to get air in the cabin. All 3 of us went to urgent care on recommendation of the fire department that met the plane. Mechanicals also did find an Oil leak in the APU. They MEL'd it and had another crew work our next flight. Narrative: 2 During push back, we smelled a faint odor of dirty socks around row 8. It was not too strong so we continued on. The flight proceeded without incident. At final approach, a VERY strong "dirty sock" odor filled the cabin. The smell was even stronger as I came to the back galley after doing my final cabin check. The "C" FA and I covered our mouths and noses with coffee bags and paper towels. The fumes were very nauseating. I then called the "A" FA to inform her of our situation. Before I could utter a single word, she said "you guys smell it too?" I told her that we think it's a fumes event. She said she would call the flight deck. We got to the gate, did our disarming procedures, and the passengers started to deplane. The C FA called up front and got the 0k from the captain to open 2R so we could seek fresh air. We waited for all the passengers to leave and then exited the aircraft as soon as possible. Before we left, there were 3 maintenance guys that came to the back galley. As soon as they were back there, one said out loud. "Oh yeah. I smell the Oil." We gathered our belongings and left the aircraft. We sat behind the gate area as the [cabin manager], pilots, and gate personnel talked to us. About 1 1/2 hours later the maintenance guy came out and verbally confirmed with us that yes we were in a fumes event. They had found that the APU was definitely leaking oil and that it transferred into the cabin. He then told us that they are going to MEL the APU. So that the aircraft could fly again. We told the [cabin manager] that we were very foggy and not feeling well and we would like to be looked at. The paramedics came to check us out and recommended that we should go to urgent care. The [cabin manager] put us in a [cab] and we went to the urgent care. The urgent care took 2 1/2 hours to get us in. We then got checked out and they drew blood to test for carbon monoxide poisoning. We left, went to the hotel and deadheaded home the next morning. Synopsis
A319 flight attendants reported a dirty sock odor and fumes in the cabin. After block in the cabin crew reported exposure to a fume event and went to an urgent care facility. Maintenance inspection discovered an oil leak.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Aircraft Reference : X Make Model Name : A321 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Cruise Component Aircraft Component : First Aid Equipment, with Medical Kit & Defibrillator Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Design Person Reference : I Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Cabin Activity : Safety Related Duties Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.Flight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1473485 Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Time Pressure Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Illness Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Attendant When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Overcame Equipment Problem Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Incorrect / Not Installed / Unavailable Part Primary Problem : Incorrect / Not Installed / Unavailable Part Narrative: 1 During inflight medical emergency, tourniquet discovered missing from sealed IMK (Inflight Medical Kit). Additionally, no red biohazard bag packed in sealed Grab-n-Go bag. Medical professional requested blood glucose monitor, informed not part of basic IMK contents. Third request this year for similar device during medical emergencies. I recall this being a request during my previous time as analyst. Request this device be added to kit since it offers medical health care provided a greater understanding of ill passenger's
condition. Nurse Practitioner was very surprised to learn that [the company] doesn't carry such an inexpensive device in our medical kits. Related to same event, delay incurred in rendering necessary care for ill passenger due to basic information regarding passenger not being relayed by POC (Physician on Call) during initial notification Of illness (see suggestions below). It's still unclear if flight deck crew failed to provide initial info in a timely manner, transmission was not received by dispatcher, or POC's response was simply untimely. Regardless, this lapse delayed necessary and sound medical care to an ill passenger. [Medical emergency info] was provided to flight deck crew during initial notification (45 minutes after takeoff). Passenger stabilized and didn't require additional care until 1.5 hours prior to landing. It was during that time frame that nurse requested to start IV in order to hydrate and establish a line should additional drugs be required due to heart condition. Requested authorization from flight deck (through POC) and was told (by FO) that dispatcher/ POC was delaying approval since they requested information previously sent immediately after take-off (age, sex, basic health condition, etc.) After a 20-25 minute delay, I called the flight deck informing this passenger could wait no longer, thus requesting "captain's authority" to override the POC and give the Nurse Practitioner approval to start I.V. for ill the passenger. Captain approved my request. However, the delay (and haphazard line of communication) was unnecessary and bordered irresponsible on [the company's] behalf. Synopsis Air carrier flight attendant reported that items were missing from the aircraft's medical kit. In addition, it was noted that some commonly used medical testing devices were not included in the air carrier's medical kit inventory.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Cruise Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Galley Cabin Activity : Service Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.Flight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1471810 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Illness Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Attendant When Detected : In-flight Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Equipment / Tooling Primary Problem : Company Policy Narrative: 1 I wore the Alternate uniform for the first time. Two hours into the flight I was working in the aft Galley. I was the B galley flight attendant. My coworker was in the galley with me at that time. I felt it was warm in the galley from the beginning and as I got busier it got more stuffy. We just got done collecting and was getting ready to do the breaks when I started feeling real hot and couldn't breathe. I felt dizzy and I told my co-worker that I'm about to pass out. He asked me to lay down on the last row. Shortly the F flight attendant asked me if I need oxygen, I nodded and she hooked me up with the hi-flow outlet. I used the oxygen for almost 2 hours. After that I felt better. I called the [pilot] and he instructed me to get lots of rest. He said it sounded like vertigo. I've never had vertigo ever. I heard other Fa's having vertigo in reaction to the new uniform. On the return flight, I wore the uniform again and within 15 minutes I felt hot and dizzy again. This happened at the hotel lobby. Captain advised me to do whatever it takes to remain healthy. I took the uniform off and worked in jeans in my return flight, I was fine the entire flight. At this point I was concerned about my health and safety around the uniform.
Synopsis A flight attendant reported that the company issued uniform made her ill.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Place Locale Reference.Airport : State Reference : US Aircraft Reference : X ZZZ.Airport Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Taxi Component Aircraft Component : Main Gear Tire Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Failed Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Cabin Jumpseat Cabin Activity : Safety Related Duties Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.FIight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1471480 Human Factors : Other / Unknown Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action Result.Aircraft : Aircraft Damaged Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 We learned after getting to the hotel, one of the main tires had blown up at some stage of flight, assumed landing, which resulted in the tire exploding and damaging the fuselage of
the aircraft with a gaping hole. It has not been determined by the flight deck at what stage it occurred. It is concerning to me that at no stage was this alerted to the working flight deck crew. It was significant damage to the airplane which caused the plane to be not airworthy. The only irregular part of our flight occurred shortly after takeoff, just prior to climbing above 10,000 feet, I heard what sounded like a shift in the landing gear. Could not pin point the exact sound, but it raised a concern to myself, and was mentioned to me by 2 other flight attendants sitting by door 2. We mentioned this to the [First Officer], who said they heard it too, but thought it was a gear shifting or perhaps cargo unsecured but elected to continue and not giving much thought beyond that mention. Flight continued and landed normally. It was only later that night we leaned from the outbound crew what had happened on our flight on landing. Not sure if this event had any connection, but it was worth noting to let everyone know what we heard. We waited for our gate for over 20 minutes on the tarmac and concerns me regarding the severity of the damage and the hole in the fuselage. Synopsis Flight Attendant reported being informed later that one of the main gear tires exploded and damaged the fuselage. The reporter was upset for not being informed of the situation that was unfolding while on the aircraft.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.SingIe Value : O Environment Ceiling : CLR Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 3737-800 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Cabin Lighting : High Number Of Seats.Number : 179 Passengers On Board.Number : 179 Crew Size Flight Attendant. Number Of Crew : 4 Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Cabin Activity : Boarding Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Attendant : Off Duty Qualification.Flight Attendant : Current Experience. Flight Attendant. Total : 26 Experience. Flight Attendant.Airline Total : 26 Experience. Flight Attendant.Number Of Acft Qualified On Experience. Flight Attendant. Type : 15 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1471209 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken
Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Ambiguous Narrative: 1 Company Policy Human Factors Procedure During boarding, I noticed an elderly couple limping toward the exit row where I had already taken my seat. Sure enough, the elderly woman, who was also very large, had to hold onto every seat back as she slowly struggled down the aisle toward the exit row, then with difficulty and using every seatback/armrest as a crutch, hobbled into her window seat. Her husband also seemed physically impaired and walked incredibly slowly but somewhat less so than his wife. He then took his seat [with me sitting between them]. I struck up a conversation with them, asking if they wanted to sit together, and did they know that they were in an Emergency exit row. They declined my offer, but admitted that they booked the seats because of the extra legroom. I asked if the woman was 0k, and told her I'd noticed her difficulty walking--she admitted she had had knee surgery in the past. She did not have any noticeable braces. Again, I reminded them that they were in an emergency exit-they did not comment further. When the working flight attendants came to ask the 'are you willing and able to assist in an emergency' question, they both answered in the affirmative. I did bring up my observation to the crew working in economy later in the flight but they both said that they did not witness this couple's slow and belabored journey to the exit row. This was due to the fact that one of them was busy setting up the economy galley during most of the boarding time, and the other was stationed at the boarding door as a 'greeter'. So, for most of the boarding process, there was nobody in the aisle. In addition, they said that because they'd gotten an affirmative answer to the question, there was nothing they could do. I feel that if I had been working the flight, I might've run into the same problem-and have before. When/if the Flight Attendant (FA) does not actually see the person display something that looks like it could impede their ability to open the window exit quickly, such as limping/weakness/a brace/cast, portable oxygen container etc, it is difficult to remove someone from that row when they deny any such disability. I personally felt unsafe with this obviously physically impaired woman in charge of opening the exit that was closest to me. She was also so large that I doubt she could've either gotten out of the window quickly (she would definitely not have been able to open it-she tried, but literally could not bend over to pick up the soda can that fell off of her tray table) or even gotten out of the way so that others could get out quickly. I do know that the actual chances of having to evacuate are relatively slim, but that is beside the point. All of our safety training/knowledge and rules are in place not because of what *usually happens* but what *might happen* To that point, I feel that our (and the FAA's) directives on exit row restrictions are too lax and open to exploitation. People choose their seats online most Of the time and are obviously ignoring the pop-up warnings to not choose those seats if they are impaired in any way. They simply want the legroom--just as the elderly gentleman (who was actually wearing Velcro strap tennis shoes--he couldn't even tie his shoes!) admitted when I reminded them that they were in an emergency exit. The Customer Service (CS) agent, who also questions passengers seated in exit rows
during the ticket scanning process is under pressure to get flights out on time and are frequently overworked. As long as the passenger in question answers affirmatively to their question, again, they cannot remove them, unless there is an obvious brace, crutches etc. Many times, the overworked CS agents allow passengers like this to board in the hopes that the FAs will sort out the problem on-board--be it an obvious child in the exit row or someone impaired like this couple obviously was. It happens all the time. However, we flight attendants are also understaffed. On this particular flight, the 2 FAs working in First Class (FC) were busy setting the forward galley up for service and completing the comprehensive and time consuming pre-departure drink service--which takes the entire boarding process and taxi time to finish in most cases. Passengers often ask for second drinks before the flight takes off--sending the FA back and forth during boarding. We used to give just a small selection of OJ, water or champagne before push- back in FC which was far more conducive to having the time needed to complete cabin safety checks. I feel that because of the poor staffing we have on all of our flights--some worse than others--we are missing things like unsuitable passengers in the exit row and many other, perhaps more dangerous issues. I certainly do not feel safe with the way the regulations are being applied at my airline. The procedures seem to be insufficient in weeding out those who definitely shouldn't be In the exit rows, and we FAs, the trained safety professionals, have almost no power to be able to ensure a suitable person IS at the exit. We have also been told recently that our job is to "inform, not enforce" the regulations. (Not limited to exit rows.) Also, it must be mentioned that 'persons of size' should never be seated at an exit WINDOW, (door exit rows excluded) as they would not fit easily/quickly and would most likely impede others' egress in an emergency when fractions of a second count. I cannot fathom how it is actually allowed at my airline and how it is that we are required to provide an extension to those who cannot fit in the standard aircraft seatbelt. Synopsis Deadheading Flight Attendant reported the screening process for emergency exit row passengers which only requires an affirmative answer to the question "are you willing and able to assist in an emergency?" The passengers in question were obviously not able.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8737-700 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Cruise Cabin Lighting : Low Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1469496 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Attendant Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Other / Unknown Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly Deviation - Procedural : Security Detector. Person : Flight Attendant When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Overcame Equipment Problem Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Company Policy Narrative: 1 Captain came out for lav break. I went in to the cockpit. First Officer said he was going to do the same but there was a delay in hm coming out. Once he came out, not sure how door got closed but it did. Immediately Captain called and said she was reopening the door so I could come in. Synopsis
A Boeing 737 Flight Attendant reported the cockpit door closed before she could get in to relieve the First Officer for a lav break.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Place Locale Reference.Airport : SNA.Airport State Reference : CA Altitude.AGL.SingIe Value : O Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B737 Next Generation Undifferentiated Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Takeoff Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Door Area Cabin Activity : Safety Related Duties Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant In Charge Qualification.Flight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1469075 Human Factors : Other / Unknown Events Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Other / Unknown Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Detector. Person : Flight Attendant When Detected : Taxi When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airport Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I was FA Number I on this flight. Immediately after the start of pushback from the gate, I began the safety demo video. About halfway through the video demo, the captain made
the announcement over the PA system "flight attendants, prepare for takeoff. " I immediately called CA and told him that I need about "2 more minutes" to complete the safety video. This would also include safety compliance checks, stow the last of the galley supplies and flight attendants taking jump seats. CA responded by saying "I'll give you I minute." I than responded that I would "call" him when we were set to go in the cabin. Immediately after telling CA this, he gave the 1 chime to indicate that takeoff was imminent. Less than 30 seconds later, CA started the takeoff roll. There are so many safety violations that need to be mentioned: I) the safety video was still playing when takeoff was initiated 2) pre-departure drinks were still out in first class 3) FA's could not perform safety compliance checks 4) FA's were not seated in assigned jump seats 5) FA(s) were still standing in the aisle when takeoff began. After takeoff, and once we cleared sterile cockpit, I immediately called CA to voice my complaint. His response to me was "I have been doing this trip all month and we have never had a problem. What time did you start the video?" Well, guess what? I have been doing this particular trip all month as well and up until last night, there was never an issue or problem prior to takeoff. I repeated to CA all the violations (1-5) that had occurred and told him I would contact the chief pilot as well. His response to me was "do what you have to do." In all the years I have been a flight attendant and in all the years that have been FA Number 1 (lead), I have never had an incident like this. So many violations and a complete and utter disregard from CA concerning my safety, my fellow flight attendants safety, the customers safety and to a certain extent, CA's safety as well. So blatant and so irresponsible was CA's actions, I am relieved and thankful that no person was injured on this flight. The opposite could have occurred. 1) COMPLETE AND TOTAL COMMUNICATION BETWEEN THE CAPTAIN AND THE LEAD FLIGHT ATTENDANT DURING ALL PHASES OF TAXI OUT PRIOR TO TAKEOFF!!! Synopsis B737NG Flight Attendant, departing SNA, reported receiving the "prepare for takeoff" PA from the Captain while the demo tape was still playing and informed the Captain. The Captain took off with some flight attendants standing.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Environment Light : Dusk Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B737 Next Generation Undifferentiated Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass A : ZZZ Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Cabin Activity : Service Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.FIight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1467879 Human Factors : Physiological - Other Human Factors : Workload Events Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Other / Unknown Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors
Narrative: 1 A few teenagers who were part of a larger group, that were on their way to military boot camp, expressed being hungry but not having a card to pay for purchases. Some Of them had never flown before or hadn't flown in a while. Since they didn't have a parent or guardian to pay for their meals, I accepted their cash and swiped my personal card to pay for the total Of their purchases. Synopsis A Flight Attendant reported a group of men enroute to military boot camp were hungry, but had only cash so she swiped her credit card for their food purchases and received their cash in exchange.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.SingIe Value : O Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : A320 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Phase : Taxi Component Aircraft Component : APU Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Galley Cabin Activity : Deplaning Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.Flight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1466443 Human Factors : Other / Unknown Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Smoke / Fire / Fumes / Odor Detector. Person : Ground Personnel When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate Result.GeneraI : Evacuated Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action Result.Aircraft : Equipment Problem Dissipated Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 Aircraft Human Factors
During the deplaning process catering came on board and provisioned the aircraft. After removing the last cart the catering person said our airplane is on fire and pointed to the tail of the aircraft. She hurried to close the door. At that moment Flight Attendant (FA) A called to the aft galley and I informed him that catering said the aircraft is on fire and we need to get everybody off the plane. I started shouting commands to the passengers to leave belongings and get off the airplane and FA C got on the PA from the aft galley and informed people to leave everything and get off the plane due to a fire in the back of the airplane. 3/4 of the passengers had already deplaned however, we had two wheelchair passengers seated in the back that slowed down the deplaning process. Unfortunately because there were two Flight Attendants in back of the airplane and only one upfront we were unable to assist the wheelchair passengers. Passengers continued to retrieve their bags out of the overhead compartments and we continued to shout commands to leave everything and get off the airplane. FA A made a PA from the front of the plane trying to get passengers to leave their belongings and get off as quickly as possible due to a fire. After the last passenger deplaned the aircraft we spoke to maintenance in the flight deck and he informed us it was safe to get our bags and get off. The three of us checked the cabin to make sure everyone was off and removed all the passengers bags that were left on board and took them up the jetway for the passengers to receive their bags back. We were informed that the back of the airplane was on fire and it had a very strong odor of fuel and smoke. Synopsis A Flight Attendant reported being informed that the tail of the aircraft was on fire during deplaning. The Flight Attendants commanded the remaining passengers to evacuate and leave their belongings.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 10000 Environment Weather Elements / Visibility : Turbulence Light : Daylight Ceiling : CLR Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8737 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Climb Airspace.Class B : ZZZ Number Of Seats.Number : 160 Passengers On Board. Number : 154 Crew Size Flight Attendant. Number Of Crew Component Aircraft Component : Galley Furnishing Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Galley Cabin Activity : Deplaning Cabin Activity : Safety Related Duties Cabin Activity : Service Cabin Activity : Boarding Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Experience. Flight Attendant. Total : 2 Experience. Flight Attendant.Airline Total : 2 Experience. Flight Attendant. Type : 60 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1465939 Human Factors : Situational Awareness
Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Smoke / Fire / Fumes / Odor Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : N When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Returned To Departure Airport Result.FIight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Result.Flight Crew : Diverted Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 Taking off from ZZZ, Captain informed us to stay in our seats until he calls. After we crossed 10,000 feet and the chime went off, we remained in our seats as instructed. The Number one pointed me to the oven and there was smoke coming out. I took my seat belt off and got up to turn the oven off and didn't open it and got back to my jump seat and strapped in. There was a lot of turbulence. Then we heard a noise like when the wheels dropped for landing, the plane was still climbing and then it started turning. No 1 and I realized that this was not normal. [We] immediately called the cockpit and they told us that they will get back to us in a second, we realized something was up. Captain called and instructed [us] with info: 10 mins, Fire trucks were going to meet the flight and there was a issue with the flaps. [We] spoke to the number 2 and asked him if he had listened to the instructions that we need to run the Emergency checklist. I was concerned about that but also the smoke coming out of the oven. [We] went through the tablet Check list. [Number 1] made all the necessary PAS from the check List and kept giving me instructions. It was extremely turbulent. [Another flight attendant] got up from her jump seat and went to Exit rows to move some of the Deadhead FAs to the exit row. I couldn't leave the IL-IR and forward galley area because we were close to the ground and turbulence was very strong. Plus the smoke from the oven continued but was dissipating it was mild but I did not want to leave it unattended. We returned to our jump seats and conducted our 30 second reviews, together which included our handicapped passengers and our Unaccompanied Minor onboard. We touched down, the plane took a long time to stop and we were expecting an impact any minute. I said get ready 'this is real, it's happening'. Finally the plane came to a stop and the Captain made a PA. This is the Pilot remain seated, followed by a PA about the Fire department checking the tires because the aircraft had a heavy landing. Then we started to move to the gate and we deplaned by jet bridge. Synopsis A Boeing 737 Flight Attendant reported smoke coming out of an oven in the galley.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.SingIe Value : O Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Cabin Activity : Deplaning Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1465083 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Attendant Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Other / Unknown Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Attendant When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 After blocking in, the pilots obviously shut down the ground power upon their departure from the aircraft. I was in the aft galley saying goodbyes to our customers and a couple of people had to use the lav's before deplaning and said to me "there is no light in the lav" when the door was closed and locked. It was also stifling hot in the back where we were congregated. NO AIR!! I went to call the Flt Deck and the purser and there was no way to
use the intercom. Then I tried to use the PA. Of course NOTHING. This has happened to me a number of times before when the ground power has been shut down, the airplane was still at least 3/4's full from my vantage point. My concern is/was, what if there was a medical emergency? What if there was a fire? Many situations could potentially happen and there is/was no way to communicate with the front of the aircraft, to the Flt Deck or the FAs in the forward cabin. I don't think a megaphone would handle the communication needed for an emergency! Synopsis Air carrier Flight Attendant reported a complaint with company procedures that permit pilot crews to shut down all power after parking at the gate with passengers still deplaning.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B737 Next Generation Undifferentiated Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Cabin Lighting : High Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Cabin Activity : Boarding Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.FIight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1463630 Human Factors : Time Pressure Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Cabin Activity : Boarding Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.FIight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1463647 Human Factors : Time Pressure Events Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Security
Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate Result.GeneraI : Police / Security Involved Result.GeneraI : Flight Cancelled / Delayed Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Company Policy Narrative: 1 During boarding, Ops informed Flight Attendant A that there is a group of young men who seemed to be intoxicated that will be boarding the flight. She explains to FA A that he will "know who they are" when they come on. FA A asked Ops why they were allowing them to board and when Ops didn't provide an answer, FA A went to the Captain and asked the Captain why they were allowing them to board. The Captain then interrupted boarding and went down to talk with the Ops agent about the situation. Apparently, because of the events that followed, the Ops agent was able to satisfy the Captain's question. Two bachelor parties come on board, each smelling of alcohol. One party had 5-7 men (estimated) and the other 7-10 men and women (estimated). Both parties had been drinking several hours due to their flights being late or delayed. Ops positioned a policeman on the tarmac to "keep an eye" on the groups to make sure they didn't do anything wrong. Why even have that if Ops didn't know they were already intoxicated? Most men came on very loud, boisterous, obnoxious, profane and smelling of alcohol. There was no mistaking the smell. Additionally, the smaller of the two groups began to harass the FA B on boarding in the back, catcalling her and making comments out loud as she walked by them. Once on board, they began being loud and rude throughout the entire back part of the plane. We could hear them in the front after the FA A made the opening PA. At this time, FA B made her way to the front to say that she would not and could not work back there. She said we needed to take passengers off because of their loud behavior, rudeness and level Of intoxication. At this point the Ops Supervisor came on board and went to smooth over the situation and explain to the groups that there would be no alcohol served on the flight. As she starts talking to the groups, one man decided to mouth off to her and she quickly realized the situation and began steps to pull him off the plane. The man would not comply, so she called for a policeman. Two policemen then came on board and informed the man that he would not be flying to ZZZ and the man began to get even more upset while several of the friends in his group began to make even more noise about it being unjust that they are pulling the man from the flight. After a few minutes of the man arguing the man decided to come up to the front of the plane. Once in the front of the plane, Captain began talking to him and explaining to him why he was not going to ZZZ. The policeman then grabbed him by the arm and pulled him off the plane. Once the man was off the plane, the Captain then asked for the three Flight Attendants, the Ops Supervisor and himself to meet out on the ramp. The FA B stayed on the plane while the Captain asked what we wanted to do. All three of us said we wanted to take the groups off and, at least, did not want to serve during the 46 minute flight. The Captain informed us that we were going to do a water service with no alcohol. The Ops agent then said they needed to push the plane due to a terminator coming in. At
this point, Captain made a PA to the plane that we were only going to do a limited service of water and that no alcohol would be served. As the Captain finished his PA, he said "My name is John Doe. John Doe." As he finished, the B was at mid cabin counting and one of the passenger yelled "John Doe is a jerk!" at the top of his voice. B immediately turned around and tried to determine who said this. Noticing that the man we thought said it was getting elbowed by his girlfriend and being told to be quiet. This caused another stir and at this point we wanted both groups pulled off for good. Another Ops Sup came on board (who told us she had seen them drinking for several hours in the airport) and went to confront both groups again. Without being able to positively identify who the person was, we decided to then switch positions so that the B would not be forced to work in the back with all of these men. 4 policemen then came to determine who we were wanting to remove from the plane. The lead police officer then informed each group that if anything happened on the way to ZZZ that they would be back at our departure airport and having to deal with him upon return that night. Ultimately, the Captain and Ops made the decision to let them all fly. This was against our wishes and judgment. The plane then took off and landed in ZZZ without another incident. We need to stop being scared of lawsuits from intoxicated passengers and have the Ops Agents do their jobs! We can't pass this on to us as we are in a metal tube at 38,000 feet. This situation should have been handled by Ops the way they are instructed to do. Failure to handle the situation in the terminal led to a bunch of people thinking they can say and do whatever they want and not have any repercussions. This entire event will never happen again as long as I work for this Company. I will never let it go again like we did last night. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis 3737 Flight Attendants reported questioning Company Operations and the Captain's decision to depart with a group of intoxicated passengers.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZZ.Airport State Reference : FO Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Widebody Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 4 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : GPS Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Parked Route In Use : Oceanic Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Cabin Activity : Service Cabin Activity : Boarding Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.FIight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1462669 Communication Breakdown Human Factors : : Situational Awareness Human Factors Human Factors : Time Pressure Workload Human Factors : : Physiological - Other Human Factors Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Cabin Activity : Boarding Cabin Activity : Service Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.FIight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1462420
Human Human Human Human Human : Workload Factors Factors : Time Pressure Factors : Physiological - Other Communication Breakdown Factors : : Situational Awareness Factors Person : 3 Reference : 3 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.Flight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1462664 Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Time Pressure Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Physiological - Other Communication Breakdown. Partyl : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Ground Personnel Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Other / Unknown Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Detector. Person : Flight Attendant When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : Physical Injury / Incapacitation Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Chart Or Publication Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Company Policy Narrative: 1 During the briefing the base manager informed our crew of the late arrival of our airplane, since it was coming in from [another airport]. Crew arrived at the gate for boarding, but airplane was not at the gate. About two and a half hours later we boarded the Aircraft, and proceeded to perform our safety checks, and prepare for passenger boarding. According to the captain, there were mechanical issues, which caused further delay. Ground staff made the decision to switch Aircraft with the inbound Aircraft. Went to another gate, and waited for the Aircraft to arrive. When it finally showed up, the crew boarded at around another hour and a half. During boarding, the pilots had reached their duty time limitations, but they all opted to waive their legal rights. We were asked by the pilots when our duty time limitations were up, and I informed them it was in forty minutes, according to our contract. After passenger boarding was complete, the doors closed, and the Aircraft pushed back almost four hours late.
As we taxied to the runway, the flight deck called the Purser to inform him of some mechanical issues, and possible return to the gate. After 20 minutes., the Aircraft proceeded to a remote gate and jet stairs were brought to door IL. During this time, Purser was on the phone with both the crew desk, as well as base manager. [Someone] from the crew desk inform him the flight wouldn't be going to the original destination, but instead diverting to a west coast station. When Purser remarked about our duty time limitations, [the individual at the crew desk] told him we were legal to go (based on the new contract that is not in effect, as well as the calculations of the actual flight time). I heard Purser ask Base Manager to come out to the gate, for inflight support. Base Manager refused. I then talked to Base Manager, and told her the flight attendant crew was not legal, because the crew desk was miscalculating our numbers, and making it look like we were legal to work to new destination. I told Base Manager if she wanted us to work the flight, she would need to come out to the gate, and issue us a direct order, because I did not feel comfortable working the trip, due to the lengthy delay, and the feeling of fatigue setting in. She refused. During this time, the crew performed their duties, by passing out the LTD kit, and offering beverages to passengers. There were a number of passengers that were upset with the situation, and didn't want to continue on. One passenger, was talking to a Customer Service (CS) agent in Cantonese. He was adamant about deplaning, but after talking to the agent, he backed down. I attempted to keep the door open, even though CS was trying to close the door. Maintenance resolved the issue, and the door was forcibly closed. I went up to talk to the Captain, and informed him the flight attendants were illegal to work, and he said, "I don't care. There's nothing I can do now." We pushed back seven hours after checking, but we didn't take off for another [extended period of time]. During the flight, the pilots appeared fatigued, and made a few mistakes. On the captain's last rest break, they left the cockpit barrier deployed, and went into their bunkroom, therefore prohibiting passengers and other crewmembers from using the lavatory. I called the First Officer to tell them the barrier was still deployed, and they needed to contact the pilots in the bunkroom to open the door, and retract the barrier. One of the pilots in the cockpit looked out through the peephole, and they said it didn't look like it was deployed. I asked them to call the pilots on break to retract the barrier, but the pilots refused to do that. I directed my GS passengers to the lavatories during this time. I then noticed the barrier wasn't fully latched or secured, when the pilots were on a shift change, and I could reach in and retract the barrier, myself. All of the crew exhibited signs of fatigue throughout the flight. During the last service before landing, the passenger who talked to the agent previously, told Purser what transpired between him and the agent in [in a foreign language]. He said the agent told him, if he wanted to deplane, he alone would be the reason the flight cancelled, and threatened him that Company would not help him book another flight, and he would not get a refund, basically he would be on his own. On a side note, I was extremely angry with the lack of support from the pilots, management, Customer Service, and the crew desk. They never factored in the reality of our fatigue and exhaustion, nor did they care. We had been on duty for a total [for an extended period of time], not including customs and debrief. Narrative: 2 These rules and agreements are in place to protect ourselves, as well as the passengers. If pilots, crew desk, and management can change them at their whim, what's the point of a
binding agreement? Without a doubt, every single flight attendant felt like their rights were ignored, and we were forced to do something we were not comfortable with, as we felt the passengers' safety was compromised. We landed. There was a crew waiting to replace us, once the doors opened, and we finished our duty day (not including 30 minutes customs + 30 minutes debrief). Narrative: 3 I felt like I have been [put in a bad place] by working over our maximum duty limitations. Luckily we don't have to face any emergency issue. We were so [tired] and blur I feel a sore throat right away after the flight. Beside that the customers didn't get offered any food or beverage during the delayed at the gate area and didn't get any another options for their travel due to long hours delayed. I hope next time our company can do better for our customers and also the working crews. Synopsis Flight attendants on an international flight reported their company forced them to remain working beyond their legal duty time due to an extended ground delay.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Q400 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Climb Airspace.Class E : ZZZ Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Cabin Activity : Service Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.FIight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1462074 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Other / Unknown Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : Evacuated Result. Flight Crew : Landed As Precaution Result.Flight Crew : Returned To Departure Airport Result.FIight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Primary Problem : Aircraft
Narrative: 1 As we took off from ZZZ this morning we received the after takeoff chime and as we started setting up the cart to start the inflight service we heard a loud noise that sounded like a decompression, as if a tire had blown and all of the air was being released and the sound was coming from the cargo compartment. I immediately called our CA and he said that he was just about to call us and that the flight deck warning light indicated that a fire in the cargo compartment could be a possibility. The FO asked if we could see smoke and I replied no. I felt the back galley wall to see if I could feel heat, which I did not. The CA said that we would be going back to ZZZ and that he would make a PA. We quickly put away the cart and made the announcement to prepare the cabin for landing. The CA told us that we would be doing an expeditious deplaning of passengers and I repeated the instructions back to him. I did my silent review preparing that we could have a fire in the cargo compartment going over in my head, donning the oxygen equipment, fire extinguishers, evacuating the aircraft. When we landed I could see the fire truck but was still unsure if we had a fire or not. Our CA made a PA remain seated, we taxied to the gate and did an expeditious deplaning of the passenger. I made an announcement to leave all personal belongings behind, to exit out of the main cabin door only. The CA instructed the passengers to congregate by the stop sign. After we got all of the passengers off I made sure that there we did not have any passengers still on the aircraft. The crew exited the plane. The CA spoke with the fire department and what bothers me is that the fire department had stated to the CA that if we were on the taxiway we should not have deplaned the passengers immediately after opening the cabin door. I don't understand this thought process at all. Shouldn't our priority be to get the passengers off of the plane in the event that we did have a fire regardless of where we deplane the passengers? The fire department verified that there was not a fire and one of the firemen checked with a heat sensor. After being on the tarmac with the passengers we asked the ground crew if they would direct the passengers inside. The passengers did follow our instructions and they did leave all personal belongings on board. After discussing what to do to return the personal belongings to the passengers originally the ground crew thought that they would collect all belongings and put them on the cart, which I spoke up and said I didn't feel comfortable with that and I did not want to be responsible for collecting all personal belongings. After discussing it we decided that the best alternative would be to have 5 passengers at a time come back onto the plane and collect their own personal items which worked out well. As the passengers came back on board I asked each one if I could help in any way, if they needed anything. During this the duty officer had called. A fire is a very serious situation and in our training we know how quickly a fire can spread. I am thankful that we did not actually have a fire, I am thankful for flying with a crew that communicated well as a crew and that we talked about what happened. We debriefed and we took the time to debrief. I appreciate that the FO took the time to show us the checklist. I now know what it sounds like to have the pilots oxygen donned. I feel that in a situation like this that you should automatically be taken off of your trip to decompress. You shouldn't have to decide if you want to continue to fly or not. We each handle situations differently but to take myself off of the trip was the absolute best choice for myself. We deadheaded to ZZZI and when we landed our supervisor entered the back of the aircraft. I thought that he was there to discuss what had happened but did not. Synopsis Q400 Flight Attendant reported that as they started service they heard a loud noise that sounded like decompression that came from the cargo compartment.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : MMMX.Airport State Reference : FO Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Large Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Component Aircraft Component : Company Operations Manual Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Improperly Operated Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Cabin Activity : Safety Related Duties Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.FIight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1462045 : Confusion Human Factors Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Training / Qualification Human Factors : : Situational Awareness Human Factors Human Factors : Distraction Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Other Breakdown.Party2 : Ground Personnel Communication Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft
Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Cabin Activity : Safety Related Duties Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.FIight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1460881 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Training / Qualification Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Ground Personnel Events Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Other Person Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate Result.General : Release Refused / Aircraft Not Accepted Result. General : Flight Cancelled / Delayed Result.FIight Crew : Became Reoriented Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 During boarding I was not informed that we had an emotional support animal. During the flight I realized there was a crate under a passenger seat. I then asked the C flight attendant if she was aware about the animal. Her answer was "no". I then took a look at the paperwork that was given to me and I realized there was a code "ESAN" which we figured out meant emotional support animal. We were not aware of what kind of animal but since it was listed we figured the proper procedures had been reviewed prior to boarding. Which is normal protocol for any animal that boards our aircraft. When we landed in Mexico City and going through customs we then realized it was a monkey in the crate. The C flights attendant asked the owner if monkeys were allowed in Mexico to which the owner responded yes. That she has traveled with the monkey before and it's never been a problem. The following morning we arrived at our gate for our departure and we see the family at the gate. They had been detained in Mexico because of the monkey. After arriving we had some ground time. Before our next flight we were notified that our arriving aircraft had been quarantined because of the monkey. As you can see this was a huge inconvenience not only for the family but for us as crew and the airline. The lack of communication and knowledge has caused major problems and I this situation should have never happened. Either this airport needs more training or they need to put agents that have the knowledge regarding international laws. More communication from ground operations. I know we were running late and the rush to
board the flight was their first priority but communication and knowledge regarding international laws should be a top priority as well. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis Air carrier flight attendants, with a Mexico City destination, reported an emotional service monkey on board the aircraft which caused the plane to be quarantined.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Door Area Cabin Activity : Safety Related Duties Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.FIight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1460889 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Attendant When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate Result.General : Maintenance Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 I was alerted by [another] flight attendant that door 4R was hard to arm and that the arming lever was not fully in the armed position. We let [the Purser] and Captain know that we could not fully get the lever in the armed position and were not comfortable with the lever not in position. Captain had us open 4R and try arming it again. The lever would not go fully into position. Captain came back to 4R, had a mechanic look at the door and open from the outside. The door still would not arm properly. My crew and I (excluding [the Purser]) repeatedly voiced our concern and let Captain and
[the Purser] know that we did not feel safe and were not okay with the door. Captain and Lead said the lever was not an issue and that we would leave with the door as it was. Crew and I let [the Purser] know that we would not arm the door or be held responsible for the door as we were not comfortable and felt unsafe. Lead came back and attempted to arm the door. I let her know that I would not cross check as I did not believe the door was armed. Upon landing I reported the issue to a supervisor. Synopsis A flight attendant reported that the 4R door arming lever was not fully in the armed position. Maintenance and the Captain believed that the door was arming normally. The flight attendants were not happy.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : A320 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Taxi Number Of Seats.Number : 148 Passengers On Board. Number : 140 Crew Size Flight Attendant. Number Of Crew : Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Cabin Activity : Safety Related Duties Reporter Organization : Air Carrier 3 Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant In Charge Function.Flight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.Flight Attendant : Current Experience. Flight Attendant. Total : 28 Experience. Flight Attendant.Airline Total : 28 Experience. Flight Attendant. Number Of Acft Qualified On Experience. Flight Attendant. Type : 75 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1459683 Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Cabin Activity : Safety Related Duties Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.Flight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1460078 Events Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y
When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : Police / Security Involved Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 As we started initial descent I was standing at IL and a passenger came up and told me she needed to get off of the plane. I explained to her we were still flying though almost there and I told her she needed to return to her seat. She did with no incident. I saw her to her seat and she fastened her seatbelt. I asked her to keep her seatbelt fastened and told her we would be landing soon. I then walked to the rear of the aircraft and told Flight Attendant (FA) 2 my flying partner, to keep an eye on her and I explained what she had said. FA 2 passed the word on to FA 3. I returned to my duties in first class. The passenger in 3E asked if he could help, and I told hm everything was fine but yes, he could help me if she returned and I needed him. Approximately 15 minutes later, during final descent, I heard some yelling and saw the passenger coming up the aisle. I stopped her at row 7 and told her she need to return to her seat as we were landing. She let me walk her to her seat, I was holding her at the elbows from behind, as I could see she was unsteady. I sat her and fastened her seatbelt. I then noticed she was becoming agitated, bothering the passengers around her and trying to expose [herself]. At that point we were landing but I felt the safest course of action was to sit someone with her to ensure she did not touch anyone nor try to get up. I enlisted the help of a passenger, a male flight attendant. I removed the passenger next to [the individual] and put the passenger there. We agreed he could keep her calm until landed. While walking back up to my jumpseat I could hear a commotion and returned to row 30, where [this individual] was clearly increasingly agitated, slapping away attempts to keep her seated and calm, She then proceeded to expose herself again and I decided it would be best if I sat next to her. I asked [the passenger who tried to help] to take my jumpseat and perform door landing duties including door disarming and such when needed. I notified FA 3 what I was doing. All of this was happening during sterile cockpit. Upon landing I rang the call button and told my flying partner FA 2 to call the cockpit, explain what was happening and have security meet the aircraft. All the while I am literally holding [the woman in question] down, speaking quietly to her, trying to de-escalate her agitation. She repeatedly tried to stand, touch the passenger in 30F inappropriately, and climb over him and out the window. She continued to expose herself and I repeatedly told her to keep her top on and I kept trying to cover her. This was all physically almost impossible but I tried my best to calm her down and get to stop touching other passengers and saying inappropriate things. She seemed to respond. Upon arrival at the gate FA 3 made all announcements for me, including for the passengers to remain seated so security could enter the aircraft. When they opened the door no one was there, only an agent, no security. We sat, with me holding [the woman] and trying to keep her calm, for 10 minutes and no one came. Finally the captain made an announcement that we were not going to hold the passengers hostage since security did not show up and they could leave. It was getting increasingly difficult to hold [the woman].
The passengers got up and started to deplane and one security person arrived. He came back to row 30 and proceeded to attempt to walk [the woman] up the aisle. She became agitated and began taking off her shirt again and exposing herself. I pulled her shirt down, told her to stay covered, and covered her with my arms as best I could. She fought security and I asked him to let go and I would help her walk up. This calmed her. When we got into the jetway there was no one there to help up. I was holding [the woman] as she could barely stand. And the First Officer (FO), was there and I told him we needed the police and paramedics. He told me he was a police officer. She became agitated when he looked at her so he turned his back to her. He stood strong so I had support and she did not realize he was a man. (Men increased her hysteria). I held her upright by the wall with his help while we waited for the police and paramedics. The FO was such a huge help as my concern was that she would run back onto the aircraft and he prevented her from doing so without her realizing what was happening. About 20 minutes later the police finally arrived. They were able to get [the woman] into a wheelchair and took her in to the airport. She did not know where she was, thought she was in Dallas, and repeatedly tried to stand. The paramedics finally arrived and put her on a gurney to go to the hospital. This situation escalated quickly during sterile cockpit and we notified the captain as soon as physically possible, which was after touchdown. My concern as this incident unfolded was the safety of the aircraft and our passengers, including [the woman]. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis Two A320 flight attendants reported an encounter with a passenger and their efforts to keep her calm and in her seat until the aircraft landed safely.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Cabin Activity : Service Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.Flight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1458285 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Distraction Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown. Party2 : Other Events Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Security Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Other / Unknown Detector. Person : Flight Attendant When Detected : In-flight Result.General : Police / Security Involved Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 During initial beverage after takeoff, misconduct Passenger using excessive offensive vulgar language, showing extremely offensive, aggressive, belligerent, unstable and abnormal behavior towards multiple working crew members. Passenger using excessive vulgar language while I served him multiple beverages. After double check with him if there is anything I can get for him, I politely move on to next customers. He suddenly [started] getting extremely angry, unstable and aggressive. He was yelling in multiple vulgar language about the coffee doesn't have the "thing". I explain to him that I can't understand, He start severe yelling loudly and aggressively with unstable emotion, offensive and belligerent using vulgar language. He lost control. My flying partner and myself advise him to calm down but he continue the abnormal aggressive behavior. We report to Aft-purser and she told us [the] passenger have been very aggressive and verbal
abusive using vulgar language towards her and other working flight attendants. That was even before we first meet him, and he was extremely unstable and showing abnormal behavior. The other Flight Attendant had already reported to the cockpit captain in regards and we were told to monitor his condition but not to response to his verbally abusive vulgar language and unstable abnormal behavior. Synopsis A Flight Attendant reported a verbally abusive and apparently emotional unstable passenger became belligerent and aggressive.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Environment Weather Elements / Visibility : Turbulence Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : A321 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Nav In Use : GPS Flight Phase : Cruise Crew Size Flight Attendant. Number Of Crew : 4 Component Aircraft Component : Cabin Crew Seat Aircraft Reference : X Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Cabin Jumpseat Cabin Activity : Service Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.Flight Attendant : Current Experience. Flight Attendant. Total : 36 Experience. Flight Attendant.AirIine Total : 36 Experience.Flight Attendant.Number Of Acft Qualified On . •4 Experience. Flight Attendant. Type : 1 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1457717 Human Factors : Other / Unknown Human Factors : Confusion Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly Deviation - Procedural : FAR Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Flight Attendant When Detected : In-flight Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Company Policy Narrative: 1 My first time working on the Airbus 321 at [Company]. There are typically 3 flight attendants working the main cabin. We hit turbulence and had to immediately strap in and guess what? There are only 2 single jumpseats with seatbelts and harnesses in the rear of the aircraft. The 3rd flight attendant is out of luck. They can't get to 3L because we are trying not to kiss the ceiling. This situation MUST BE IMMMEDIATELY addressed. There needs to be double jumpseats with 4 seatbelts and harnesses available for working crew to keep them safe. All [Company] Airbus aircraft need to be retrofitted with these. Synopsis Flight Attendant reported airline's A321s are inadequately configured with jumpseats, seatbelts, and shoulder harnesses to provide safety for three flight attendants working in the aft of the aircraft during turbulence.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility State Reference : US Environment Weather Elements / Visibility Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : A321 : ZZZ.ARTCC : Turbulence Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : GPS Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass A : ZZZ Component Aircraft Component : Cabin Crew Seat Aircraft Reference : X Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Galley Cabin Activity : Service Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.FIight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1457564 Human Factors : Physiological - Other Human Factors : Time Pressure Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Other / Unknown Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Flight Attendant When Detected : In-flight Result.General : None Reported / Taken
Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Company Policy Narrative: 1 We hit turbulence in while working in the aft of our A321 and there are only 2 single jumpseats in rear of aircraft when there are at least 3 FAs back there. They can't get to the jumpseat at 3L because they can't walk it was so bumpy. We need double jumpseats at 4L and 4R with 4 seatbelt harnesses to keep our cabin crew SAFE! The aircraft is NOT SAFE for working crew until this is completed! If we hit turbulence then all FAs onboard need to have an immediate seat to harness into for their safety. Aircraft is not safe for working cabin crew until this issue is addressed. Synopsis Flight Attendant reported that her company's A321s have only two aft cabin jumpseats, but during flight three flight attendants work in the aft. When turbulence was encountered a Flight Attendant was without a jumpseat and harness.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.SingIe Value : O Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Large Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Cabin Jumpseat Cabin Activity : Boarding Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Attendant : Flight Attendant In Charge Qualification.FIight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1456573 Human Factors : Other / Unknown Events Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Illness Detector. Person : Flight Attendant When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate Result.GeneraI : Physical Injury / Incapacitation Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Right before boarding I started to get itchy, the C FA asked if I was feeling 0k, she told me my chest was really red looked like it was sunburned. She asked if I had a sunburn or had been in the sun and I told her I hadn't been in the sun. I looked like I had a really bright sunburn on my chest. My arms started to get red and I looked under my skirt and my legs were red also, I immediately took a Zyrtec to see if the symptoms would subside. This was the 3rd trip I have worn my new uniform and I'm not sure if the heat on the airplane caused my reaction. I called in Sick and on my way home ended up with a headache and
started coughing. I also was itching all over. When I returned home I took off the uniform and took photos of the reaction and took some Benadryl. Hot on the aircraft, heat activated the reaction. Have jumpseats cleaned and recall uniforms. Synopsis Flight Attendant reported an allergic reaction to the new company supplied uniform.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.SingIe Value : O Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 3737 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Cabin Lighting : High Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Cabin Activity : Boarding Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Function.Flight Attendant : Flight Attendant In Charge Qualification.FIight Attendant : Current Experience. Flight Attendant. Total : 28 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1456202 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Other / Unknown Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Attendant When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate Result.General : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Ambiguous Narrative: 1 Company Policy Human Factors
During crew change the C Flight Attendant and I began helping the incoming crew clean the Aircraft we were taking over. My C flight attendant came forward and said we needed to call for help with a cleanup, that there was vomit all over the floor at the exit row and it needed to be cleaned up. We asked the incoming A Flight Attendant what had happened and he said, when they were landing in a person vomited and they cleaned it the best they could? He asked for cleanup and they said they didn't have anyone to clean? So they brought it into ZZZ. However no one had called ahead for cleaning. ZZZ2 had the working Ops Agent clean it. He began to pour coffee grounds and soda on the saturated area? The C Flight Attendant and I explained that it needed to be disinfected. Another Agent who was the ZZZ2 Operations Sup, came to the back to get more soda? I asked him if they had a cleaning crew, he said no? I asked who usually cleans these types of mess. He replied it was not in their job description. I said, it was not in any of our job descriptions, however it needed to be cleaned. People expect to sit in the exit row. They also roll their luggage on that area to go under seat as well as have their feet there. I said there is no Cabin Appearance team he said, no. I asked if they had cleaning supplies or chemical as this was a health hazard. It needed to be disinfected. He snidely replied, I told you 3 times NO. I asked if he was a Supervisor, He said yes he was. That he would also be happy to contact Base inflight supervisor. I said, please do, better yet I will. Maybe they can get us help cleaning this. So I walked up to use jet way phone to call an Inflight Supervisor. I explained the situation and she said, try again to talk to Ops and see if they have a cleaning solution or something, also to get Captain involved. So I went back on and asked the Ops Supervisor if they had any solutions, he again replied condescending that he had been in ZZZ2 for years and they had never had cleaners or supplies. I told him that I in fact know we have had cabin appearance teams and cleaners. Especially for these type of incidents. The Captain came out and said, he talked to dispatch and they were going to block the seat. Ops Sup said, 0k and proceeded to begin boarding?? At this point I am frustrated, this is an exit seat, and the floor is saturated with vomit? It smells, it is impeding a successful evacuation if there is an emergency, as the floor is still saturated? What if someone slipped while trying to evacuate? I tried all avenues to resolve? At this point ZZZ2 Ops is going to begin boarding? I went to front to get A Flight Attendants sanitizing solution as the back was out, because they had used it earlier? I cleaned the splatters off the exit and grates. Then used alcohol wipes? It still smelled. Passengers were upset they could not sit there and the fact it was not completely cleaned. Again making it a safety and health hazard? I took a picture 5 hours after we left the floor still saturated? I feel there should be a cabin appearance team at every base and some form of cleaner in others. I also feel the crew before us should have had this taken care of. However I feel no one, including Ops is given the appropriate tools to clean this. Coffee, soda and cleaning solution and a vacuum on the plane was not enough. This needed to be cleaned, disinfected and steamed! I also feel the Ops Sup, needs to not speak to us condescending. Often both work groups don't understand the safety issues, however this was a safety issue and health hazard. Acting like calling ZZZ2 In flight Supervisor was a threat, did nothing but exacerbate the issue. It still needed to be cleaned completely. Synopsis 3737 Flight Attendant reported that a passenger vomited on the previous leg and was not adequately cleaned.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B767-300 and 300 ER Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Climb Airspace.CIass B : ZZZ Component Aircraft Component : Turbine Engine Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Cabin Jumpseat Cabin Activity : Safety Related Duties Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.FIight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1454582 Human Factors : Physiological - Other Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Smoke / Fire / Fumes / Odor Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Illness Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Attendant When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : Physical Injury / Incapacitation Result.Flight Crew : Overcame Equipment Problem
Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 Aircraft Human Factors Upon [gate] departure the midsection of the cabin filled with powerful, severe fumes of jet fuel. Not like exhaust, but as though jet fuel was being pumped directly into the cabin. It was profoundly more intense than we had ever experienced before. FA#7 and I were in the immediate area and started coughing, eyes burning, and we covered our faces while I called the cockpit. Through the coughing, I mis-dialed and called the purser, who said the fumes had just started reaching the front of the plane. I then redialed and was telling a pilot what was occurring. He realized it was severe and put the Capt on the phone. I was told there was a problem with the left engine but it was fixed and we were good to go. The passenger adjacent to the left engine had boarded not feeling well, but started vomiting immediately after this event. We took off, did our service, and I was on first break. When I came to the back of the plane after my break, a girl was standing at 4R, saying she didn't feel well. She stayed for maybe an hour to 90 mins, vomiting, nauseated. As time went on, anoher passenger said she felt overheated. The cabin was unusually cold. She didn't know why she couldn't cool down. A passenger near her completely lost her voice. Said she had had a cold, but I did notice she had a voice earlier when I was serving her. Putting two and two together, I went to the cockpit for a discussion about this matter. My concerns were dismissed. FO told me that when the engine failed they "blew out" the engine and the fumes came through the cabin. "Happens every day." I said we had 3 people who felt ill and I don't know if it was related to the fumes but that I was going to report the plane to the FAA as I felt it needed to be checked out. This seemed to anger the pilots. One said that "some people are just irritated by smelly things" and if someone were to vomit right there in the cockpit, well, it would bother him too. I assured him that vomit and toxic fumes from jet fuel were two separate and distinct substances and we (the passengers and crew) need to be sure we aren't being harmed by the fumes. I was then asked, "What do you want me to do? Turn around and go back?" And then he called the purser, had her wake the Capt and said we'll be landing in ZZZ. It seemed not out of concern but in retribution for my comments. A PA was made summoning the assistance of a physician to check on the girl vomiting by 4L. The physician asked her questions and I took notes. It was determined she was well enough to continue to ZZZI. The passenger near the engine felt better also. Of course, the physician didn't know what she was looking for and no tests for carbon monoxide, or any other, poisoning were performed. We didn't know if we had just experienced a fume event, per se, but it was an event of sufficient magnitude to affect our breathing and cause great concern. It seems that if an engine fails and it needs to be "blown out", whatever that means (but obviously entails pushing fumes through the cabin), then it would make sense that the passengers and crew would be deplaned for the process. Especially when the plane is still at the gate. This fume event lasted no longer than 3-8 minutes, but was so intense that it undoubtedly was harmful to everyone's health. Deplane all passengers and crew for the flushing Of the failed engine. Simply acknowledging what happened, especially when the pilots had foreknowledge of how this engine failure would be handled, is insufficient. Nothing was done to prevent exposure. The FO had suggested landing in ZZZ. In hindsight, perhaps that is exactly what we should have done. And gotten everyone, including the crew, medical attention. Synopsis
3767 Flight Attendant reported a fume event during takeoff that caused a strong fuel smell to enter the midcabin. The Captain was called and he indicated that a malfunction had occurred during starting, but had now been corrected. Several passengers became ill.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Medium Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass A : ZZZ Component Aircraft Component : First Aid Equipment, with Medical Kit & Defibrillator Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Design Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Cabin Activity : Safety Related Duties Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant In Charge Qualification.FIight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1454261 Human Factors Human Factors Human Factors Human Factors Human Factors Person : 2 Reference : 2 : Physiological - Other : Time Pressure : Troubleshooting : Workload : Confusion Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Cabin Activity : Safety Related Duties
Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.Flight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1454262 Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Time Pressure Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Physiological - Other Human Factors : Troubleshooting Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Illness Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Equipment / Tooling Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Passenger X rang her call button. I responded to her as I was working the First Class cabin. She stated she felt nauseous and asked for a cold cloth, which I brought, along with a vomit bag. Passenger X was traveling with a POC (Personal Oxygen Container). She mentioned it was her first time flying while having to use it and wondered if it was working properly. At that point I offered to bring the forward POB (Personal Oxygen Bottle) for her to use. I notified FA-B, of the situation and asked her to come [up] front to help me assess the passenger. Upon returning with the POB, FA-B asked me to page for medical assistance as Passenger X had lost consciousness and then came to. Prior to her loss of consciousness FA-B was able to find out that the passenger had COPD, Diabetes (had taken insulin the night prior but hadn't eaten) and had 2 prior open heart surgeries. I paged for medical assistance. Two passengers responded, a doctor and nurse. FA-B updated the women on the situation as they assess the passenger. I was instructed to retrieve orange juice and then notified the flight deck and told the CA I would report back. The doctor increased the personal oxygen container (POC) setting from 3 liters to 5 liters for the passenger. Two cups of juice seemed to help perk up Passenger X and she started to feel better. I notified the CA she had stabilized for now and I would keep him updated. The doctor then instructed me to get food preferably protein for the passenger to eat. FA- B then instructed the passenger to ring her call button at the slightest chance of not feeling well. Upon returning with a snack basket, Passenger X mentioned she was feeling nauseous and dizzy again. I notified the doctor, nurse and FA-B. We all came to her aid. She then fell unconscious. I retrieved the EEMK (emergency medical kit) and AED then notified the flight deck we had a medical emergency and requested MedAire and paramedics upon arrival along with a wheelchair. I also turned off the wifi. An ABP (Able Body Person ramper non-rev) assisted in getting Passenger X out of her seat and onto the floor. The
POB was placed on her only to find out it wasn't working properly. I then retrieved a POB from the aft cabin. I also retrieved several sugar packets while the team was placing the AED pads to her chest. The AED analyzed her heart rhythm and a shock was not given. The passenger began to seize unconsciously. Several sugar packets were placed under her tongue while the doctor was going through the EEMK looking for supplies. She continued to seize intermittently. I notified the CA the situation was declining. The Captain notified me that ZZZ was the closest airport and he had already [advised ATC]. The doctor then administered injections of Dextrose intramuscularly. Passenger X began to regain consciousness, but was still malaise and not very coherent. By now we were in "double chime, sterile All of the proper announcements were made by me. I also asked the passengers to remain seated upon arrival to allow paramedics to board the plane. Passenger X was too ill to be moved for landing. The three assisting us seats were moved; all of them would reach down and make sure Passenger X was safe and secure (not moving) upon landing. The ABP, was also in charge of making sure the medical equipment stayed secure (the POB was belted to the chair and secure). FA-B and I agreed that when we heard the landing gear go down we would all take our seats. As they finalized the medical details I ran to secure the aft and forward galleys. We were notified by a non rev pilot touchdown was in less than 30 seconds. I demanded everyone take their seats immediately. Unfortunately FA-B didn't make it to her seat and fell in the aisle upon touchdown. She jumped up and secured herself in the closest open seat. Once safe, she returned to her jump seat to perform her normal FA duties. Paramedics arrived and the aisle chair requested did not. FA-B retrieved the onboard aisle chair but it got stuck. A paramedic had to slam it open for use. FA-B and the doctor briefed the paramedics and our passenger, Passenger X was removed from the aircraft. The EEMK is not user friendly in a very urgent situation. The doctor expected us to know the exact location of its contents. We had the contents list but didn't know where to look for the supplies. FAs should be able to see an open EEMK and location of contents. Time IS precious and too much time was spent fumbling through it looking for the proper equipment. There needs to be medical glucose gel and a glucometer for quick use by a doctor as well as an automatic blood pressure cuff. Then general noise inside the plane is too loud to hear the volume on the AED for prompts. We were unable to hear any prompts over the general noise of the aircraft. The onboard aisle chairs need to be worked in so they don't jam upon trying to use. We need better syringe disposal. Two of the smaller syringes used were placed inside a water bottle but I had no way to dispose of the large 18 gauge attached to the dextrose. This is very dangerous as it was contaminated. I placed several napkins around the needle then placed several plastic cups over it. Then I placed the water bottle with the two smaller syringes and the larger one in a biohazard bag with a note on the bag "caution contaminated syringes. " I was uncomfortable leaving the plane with those there. There should be a mandatory "wait period" (30 minutes) to decompress and assess if one is fit to fly emotionally immediately after an emergency. We had to do a plane swap and board in 10 minutes after we finished the ZZZ flight. The Captain did ask if we were 0K and of course we said yes but it was the adrenaline talking. We had not a moment to breathe. It was very intense in the main cabin. FAs were unaware the landing gear comes down very early in an emergency landing situation. We were waiting to hear it to take our seats (for safety of passengers in need). This is why we were scrambling in the cabin last minute. Also, FAs were waiting to hear back from MedAire but didn't realize it can't be communicated with during sterile flight deck. This should be conveyed to FAs during training events (initial/recurrent). Narrative: 2
I have underlined the emergency equipment that we had issues with: I. Medair - We need to know that Medair is unavailable during the last 25 min of flight during initial descent. 2. Stethoscope - very poor quality, unable to auscultate anything while flying 3. Manual blood pressure cuff - maybe an automatic one. This would have to be a part of recurrent training as all automatic BP cuffs operate slightly different. 4. Glucometer - good tool to have in the EEMK to be operated by medical staff 5. Glucose gel - quick acting, also good to have in the EEMK, 6. AED - could not hear the voice commands at all while in flight! Someone needs [to] check all the AEDs for the audible voice and that it is set on the loudest setting. 7. EEMK - unfamiliarity of listed items, needles were bound in a plain white paper, nothing to distinguish them. Also no rubber tourniquet was found. This kit is very user unfriendly in an emergency. I think in initial/recurrent every FA needs to open the kit and look at the contents and remove the syringes from the boxes to see what they are dealing with. The medical staff assume we know what is in the kit and how it operates. The complete unfamiliarization of the content of the kit is a huge delay in administering emergency care. 8. Aisle Chair - jammed. Once it was opened and reopened several times by the ramp agents, I was able to open it. This needs to be part of the maintenance checks monthly 9. No aisle chair brought to gate by [company] personnel 10. A mandatory 30 minute debrief/break before the next flight not including crossing seat belts, emptying trash or preflight then next flight, Also a phone call or better yet a supervisor visit to check on the staff. Synopsis EMB-175 Flight Attendants reported a passenger became ill during flight. Issues with multiple onboard medical devices were noted.
Time / Day Date : 201705 Place Locale Reference.Airport : State Reference : US Aircraft Reference : X ZZZ.Airport ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : A319 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Climb Airspace.CIass B : ZZZ Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Cabin Jumpseat Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.FIight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1448749 Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Smoke / Fire / Fumes / Odor Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Attendant When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 Upon take off I, the number 3 flight attendant, and the number 2 flight attendant noticed a distinct dirty sock, mildew smell. We both donned the masks provided on the emergency equipment bin and informed the captain. This was the only instance the smell was noticed on the aircraft. Synopsis A319 Flight Attendant reported a dirty sock smell during takeoff.
Time / Day Date : 201705 Local Time Of Day : 0001-0600 Place Locale Reference.Airport : PHX.Airport State Reference : AZ Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8737 Next Generation Undifferentiated Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Flight Phase : Parked Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Door Area Cabin Activity : Safety Related Duties Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.FIight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1447744 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly Deviation - Procedural : FAR Detector. Person : Flight Attendant When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Inbound crew deplaned airplane.... all 4 flight attendants. As they walked up the jet bridge they said we have I through passenger. Which I replied "on the airplane? NOW?" The other crew replied yes. I asked, is there a flight attendant on board? The other crew said, no and continued to walk up the jet bridge. As our crew tried to board, catering had brought carts from the aft of the airplane. There were 2 large carts in the entry door way. 2 carts in the aisle and carts out of the housing in the galley being moved around and catered. I told catering to move the cart that we needed to board the airplane. They
replied, in just a few minutes we are catering from the back of the airplane. I told them a passenger was on board and we needed to get on. It took several minutes for them to move the carts in a way that the number 2 hopped on and stood at the bulk head to monitor the cabin while catering continued to move carts and re-cater the 1st class galley from the back of the airplane. Several more minutes before the rest of the crew could board. Number 2 deplaned and grabbed her luggage and boarded. Passenger was on the plane 3-5 minutes with no crew on the airplane. Notified captain. Inbound crew never should have deplaned until at least I outbound crew member was on board. Inbound crew did not follow procedure. Catering should not move carts or attempt to cater until crew exchange has been completed if they are going to cater the front of the airplane from the back. All through passengers should be made to deplane if inbound crew does not follow procedures. Synopsis 3737 Flight Attendant reported a through passenger was left in the cabin with no flight attendants on board.
