Report Set Description. Update Number Date of Update .....................................................November 30, 2017 Number of Records in Report Set........................50 Number of New Records in Report Set ...............50 Type of Records in Report Set. ASRS Database Report Set Fuel Management Issues .....A sampling of reports referencing incidents of fuel mismanagement, and operational concerns for fuel planning. .......32.0 ..................For each update, new records received at ASRS will displace a like number of the oldest records in the Report Set, with the objective of providing the fifty most recent relevant ASRS Database records. Records within this Report Set have been screened to assure their relevance to the topic.
National Aeronautics and Space Administration Ames Research Center Moffett Field, CA 94035-1000 TH: 262-7 MEMORANDUM FOR: Recipients of Aviation Safety Reporting System Data SUBJECT: Data Derived from ASRS Reports The attached material is furnished pursuant to a request for data from the NASA Aviation Safety Reporting System (ASRS). Recipients of this material are reminded when evaluating these data of the following points. ASRS reports are submitted voluntarily. The existence in the ASRS database of reports concerning a specific topic cannot, therefore, be used to infer the prevalence of that problem within the National Airspace System. Information contained in reports submitted to ASRS may be amplified by further contact with the individual who submitted them, but the information provided by the reporter is not investigated further. Such information represents the perspective of the specific individual who is describing their experience and perception of a safety related event. After preliminary processing, all ASRS reports are de-identified and the identity of the individual who submitted the report is permanently eliminated. All ASRS report processing systems are designed to protect identifying information submitted by reporters; including names, company affiliations, and specific times of incident occurrence. After a report has been de-identified, any verification of information submitted to ASRS would be limited. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration and its ASRS current contractor, Booz Allen Hamilton, specifically disclaim any responsibility for any interpretation which may be made by others of any material or data furnished by NASA in response to queries of the ASRS database and related materials. Linda J. Connell, Director NASA Aviation Safety Reporting System
CAVEAT REGARDING USE OF ASRS DATA Certain caveats apply to the use of ASRS data. All ASRS reports are voluntarily submitted, and thus cannot be considered a measured random sample of the full population of like events. For example, we receive several thousand altitude deviation reports each year. This number may comprise over half of all the altitude deviations that occur, or it may be just a small fraction of total occurrences. Moreover, not all pilots, controllers, mechanics, flight attendants, dispatchers or other participants in the aviation system are equally aware of the ASRS or may be equally willing to report. Thus, the data can reflect reporting biases. These biases, which are not fully known or measurable, may influence ASRS information. A safety problem such as near midair collisions (NMACs) may appear to be more highly concentrated in area "A" than area "B" simply because the airmen who operate in area "A" are more aware of the ASRS program and more inclined to report should an NMAC occur. Any type of subjective, voluntary reporting will have these limitations related to quantitative statistical analysis. One thing that can be Imown from ASRS data is that the number of reports received concerning specific event types represents the lower measure of the true number of such events that are occurring. For example, if ASRS receives 881 reports of track deviations in 2010 (this number is purely hypothetical), then it can be known with some certainty that at least 881 such events have occurred in 2010. With these statistical limitations m mind, we believe that the real power of ASRS data is the qualitative information contained in report narratives. The pilots, controllers, and others who report tell us about aviation safety incidents and situations in detail — explaining what happened, and more importantly, why it happened. Using report narratives effectively requires an extra measure of study, but the knowledge derived is well worth the added effort.
Report Synopses
ACN:1476733 (lof50) Synopsis A321 Crew reported a problem reprogramming the FMGC after a missed approach. ACN:1474184 (20f50) Synopsis Cessna 150 flight instructor reported departing with minimal fuel after founding that fuel was unavailable at the destination airport when the FBO closed. ACN: 1474087 (30f50) Synopsis An MD-II flight crew reported erroneous indications from the fuel systems during climb, resulting in a return to the departure airport. ACN: 1473826 (40f50) Synopsis A BE95 Student and Instructor Pilot reported that the left engine failed due to fuel starvation because he had mistakenly placed the fuel selector switch to "OFF" instead of "MAIN TANK" during the before landing checklist. The instructor discovered and corrected the problem and subsequently restarted the engine. ACN:1473689 (50f50) Synopsis Flight crew reported windshear warnings while attempting to land at the COS airport that resulted in two missed approaches. A third attempt was attempted in lieu of a diversion, and a successful landing was accomplished. ACN:1473537 (60f50) Synopsis Aeronca Pilot reported landing in an open field due to a loss of engine power. ACN: 1473130 (70f50) Synopsis G1159 flight crew reported the #2 engine rolled back in cruise flight at FL400. Engine relight was successful after descent, and after landing about a cup of water was found after draining a few gallons from the right fuel tank. ACN: 1471843 (80f50)
Synopsis PA-44 pilot reported the right engine failed on descent into destination airport when the right fuel tank ran dry. ACN: 1470687 (90f50) Synopsis Air Carrier Captain reported diverting due to thunderstorms at the destination airport and fuel concerns. ACN: 1470577 (100f50) Synopsis 8747 flight crew reported beginning to divert due to weather and minimum fuel but ended up going to the original destination. ACN: 1470402 (11 of50) Synopsis Mooney M20 pilot reported landing on remaining runway after the engine began running rough shortly after takeoff. Engine ran normally on the ground after switching fuel tanks. ACN: 1469213 (120f50) Synopsis A PA-18 towing a glider reported a loss of power after takeoff. The pilot quickly recovered by selecting the other fuel tank and upon landing discovered the initially selected fuel tank was empty. ACN: 1468629 (130f50) Synopsis The flight crew of a B747 reported they received an EICAS message "Gear Disagree" and also had an un-commanded fuel transfer. ACN: 1468352 (140f50) Synopsis Cessna 560XLS Captain reported that the FAA's ATC system does not seem to recognize the subsequent altitude changes included in the ICAO flight plan. ACN: 1468112 (150f50) Synopsis
3787 First Officer reported the controllers at ZSPD did not convey the actual delays to be expected during arrival, and did not expedite a clearance to the alternate after being advised of the low fuel state. ACN•. 1467190 (160f50) Synopsis C175 pilot reported a loss of engine power on final approach led to an off-field landing. ACN: 1467188 (170f50) Synopsis The flight crew of a C-414 reported that the aircraft was fueled using "Jet A" instead of 100 LL fuel. ACN: 1466184 (180f50) Synopsis A corporate jet First Officer reported a runway excursion when the PIC was unable to stop the aircraft. ACN•. 1465904 (190f50) Synopsis C177RG pilot reported diverting after the engine began running rough. Problem was later traced to partially clogged fuel injectors in cylinders #2 and #4. ACN: 1465525 Synopsis Widebody Captain reported encountering un-forecast wind shear and microburst activity upon arrival at PHX. After 20 minutes of vectoring the crew elected to divert, landing with 10,800 LBS of fuel. ACN•. 1464115 (21 Synopsis 3737 flight crew reported a windshear encounter while on approach to ORD. They executed a missed approach and elected to divert due to the weather and their fuel situation. ACN•. 1463694 Synopsis Glider tow pilot reported a loss of power after takeoff that resulted in an early release of the glider and an off-field landing.
ACN:1463585 (23 of50) Synopsis 3737 flight crew reported being dispatched with an MEL for a malfunctioning left wing fuel quantity indicator. During cruise when the gauge showed zero fuel, the engine began to lose thrust. The crossfeed was opened, the engine recovered, and the flight diverted. ACN: 1462890 (240f50) Synopsis An EMB-145's filed destination closed because of weather and a micro-burst alert so the crew planned a diversion but were advised of a ground stop. As the crew prepared for a diversion, their destination airport opened and the crew continued on. ACN: 1462879 (250f50) Synopsis A330 Captain on an intercontinental flight reported a low fuel situation developed when they had less than forecasted tailwinds. Flight requested a higher altitude with better winds. ACN: 1462249 (260f50) Synopsis B737 flight crew and Dispatcher reported a fuel imbalance at cruise and subsequent diversion. ACN: 1461603 (270f50) Synopsis Beechcraft Bonanza pilot reported an off-field landing due to loss of power on takeoff caused by debris in the fuel system. ACN: 1461572 (280f50) Synopsis Light sport aircraft pilot reported a rough running engine progressed into an engine failure. The problem was traced to fuel lines that had been incorrectly installed during recent maintenance. ACN: 1459617 Synopsis A corporate flight crew reported ATC would not issue an IFR clearance because weather had closed all desired IFR gateways. The crew elected to deviate and continue, their actions disrupted ATC operations.
ACN:1459577 (300f50) Synopsis BE76 Safety Pilot reported experiencing an engine failure during an ILS approach. ACN: 1459305 (31 of50) Synopsis EMB-145 First Officer reported the crew failed to shut down Number 2 engine at the gate while refueling because of distractions and workload. ACN: 1459271 (320f50) Synopsis B777 First Officer reported returning to departure airport after experiencing fuel system anomalies. ACN: 1458556 (330f50) Synopsis 3747 flight crew reported being issued a hold without EFC time due to weather. ACN: 1458298 (340f50) Synopsis Cessna 182 pilot reported landing on a country road due to inadvertently selecting the "off" position with the fuel selector valve. ACN: 1458248 (350f50) Synopsis A300 flight crew reported diverting due to unforecast weather combined with inadequate fuel on board. ACN: 1457646 (360f50) Synopsis C162 instructor and PA28 pilot reported both aircraft landed on the runway in opposite directions at the same time. The aircraft both veered to the side to avoid a collision. The PA28 pilot reported the engine failed and he used the wrong CTAF frequency. ACN: 1457490 (370f50) Synopsis
ERJ Captain reported receiving a reroute prior to departure from EWR which appeared shorter than the original route. Once airborne the crew learned of an altitude restriction that consumed additional fuel, resulting in a diversion. ACN•. 1456951 (380f50) Synopsis PA-25 pilot reported the aircraft lost power at 100 FT AGL when the fuel vent line became clogged. ACN: 1456611 (390f50) Synopsis T6 Texan pilot reported an off airport landing due to fuel starvation. ACN: 1454793 (400f50) Synopsis 3737 Captain and Dispatcher reported serious weather that resulted in a diversion to an offline airport. ACN•. 1454326 (41 of50) Synopsis C206 pilot reported he mistakenly positioned the fuel selector to "off" resulting in a loss of power in flight until he repositioned the selector. ACN: 1454161 (420f50) Synopsis 3767-300 Captain reported a fuel imbalance and FMC message FUEL QTY ERROR-PROG 2 on a trans-oceanic flight. After parking at the gate, ramp personnel reported a significant fuel leak from the right engine. ACN•. 1453572 (430f50) Synopsis Boeing 777 Captain reported a fuel critical situation during descent due to unforeseen deviations. ACN•. 1453554 (440f50) Synopsis 3777 First Officer reported multiple deviations and delays in flight resulted in the aircraft landing with emergency fuel.
ACN:1452522 (450f50) Synopsis 3747-400 flight crew reported experiencing a "MAIN CABIN SMOKE" light shortly after takeoff. Crew elected to return to departure airport. ACN: 1451548 (460f50) Synopsis BE-35 pilot reported diverting due to a loss of fuel out of the right fuel cap, then diverting again later after losing power associated with a fuel leak. ACN:1451200 (470f50) Synopsis LSA pilot reported an off-airport landing after a fuel miscalculation led to the tanks running dry. ACN: 1450668 (480f50) Synopsis C150 pilot reported a loss of engine power on short final due to fuel exhaustion that resulted in a dead-stick landing. ACN: 1450636 (490f50) Synopsis C310 pilot reported a complete electrical system failure in visual conditions that resulted in a diversion to a nearby airport. ACN•. 1450417 (500f50) Synopsis 3737 Dispatcher reported a flight had a MCP failure after takeoff and advised the Captain to return to the departure airport.
Report Narratives
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Environment Flight Conditions : IMC Weather Elements / Visibility Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X : Thunderstorm ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : A321 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Approach Airspace.CIass B : ZZZ Component Aircraft Component : FMS/FMC Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1476733 Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain
Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 27000 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1476734 Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Executed Go Around / Missed Approach Result.Flight Crew : Overcame Equipment Problem Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 After an extensive hold while approaching minimum fuel we were cleared for an ILS. The captain and I agreed that we had adequate fuel for two attempts at landing before necessitating a diversion to our flight planned alternate. The weather dropped below minima necessitating a go around. A go around was executed and performed per company policy and standard operating procedures. Once ATC vectored us off of the missed approach the captain began to reconfigure the FMS for our second attempt. We received a series of faults in rapid succession that ultimately resulted in a non-recovering dual FMGC failure. We notified ATC of our primary navigation failures. As we held we began approaching minimum fuel, while negotiating weather, and attempting to problem shoot the multiple failures. After a brief time we were able to reload the FMGC and input our destination and the appropriate approach. However, the FMGC would not accept the Cruise altitude input to force the FMGC into cruise mode. It was returning an error message. In effect it was stuck in takeoff mode, and would not sequence to later in the flight. After a brief discussion we decided to attempt to quickly advance the thrust into TOGA and then return to the climb detent and rebuild the automation. I pushed the thrust levers to toga, and immediately returned them to the climb detent. The aircraft began climbing as expected, I selected altitude hold, and pulled selected speed. The autopilot did not acknowledge my inputs. I attempted each multiple times. In order to prevent an altitude deviation, or a flap overspeed I disconnected the autopilot and engaged manual thrust. At this point everything was stabilized. We had not deviated from our altitudes, heading or assigned airspeeds. We reselected the vertical mode, and received an altitude capture. We reengaged the autopilot. I returned the thrust levers to the climb detent expecting the auto thrust to recapture. I noticed that this did not happen, and retarded the throttles. Moments later a minor flap exceedance was experienced. Fortunately, this maneuver properly sequenced the FMGC and we were able to continue our approach to landing. Upon landing we entered the FMGC failures as well as the flap exceedance into the [maintenance log]. Multiple complex system failures, during critical phase of flight, with adverse weather, and near minimal fuel considerations.
Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis A321 Crew reported a problem reprogramming the FMGC after a missed approach.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : FBO Make Model Name : Cessna 150 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Training Route In Use : Direct Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : FBO Function.Flight Crew : Instructor Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 1275 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 150 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 250 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1474184 Human Factors : Time Pressure Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Other / Unknown Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : Taxi Result.Flight Crew : Landed As Precaution Result.FIight Crew : Diverted
Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 A student and I departed on a night cross country flight to ZZZ. We were at maximum gross weight with 16 gallons Of fuel in our tanks. 3.5 gallons of fuel is unusable, meaning we had 12.5 usable gallons onboard. The I-hour flight to ZZZ would take 1 hour, meaning we would have burned 6 gallons. Usable fuel remaining would be 6.5 gallons. A flight back to our home airport would take roughly 30 minutes, meaning we would only have 3.5 usable gallons remaining after we landed back home if we did not refuel. Therefore we knew we would need to re-fuel before heading home. My personal minimum IS to have 1 hour of fuel remaining after each flight. The TAFs in our area were forecasting MVFR and IFR weather to arrive within 6 hours. This region is known for having bad weather arrive earlier than forecast. Therefore I wanted more than 1 hour of fuel to be in the tanks after we landed at our home airport so that we wouldn't be left without ample options to find a different place to land if the weather rolled in early. [By the time] we landed at ZZZ, both FBOs had closed. No self-serve fuel was available. Neither of us realized this until after we landed at ZZZ. Further complicating the matter is the fact that no airports on the way home had self-serve fuel. Rather than pay a fee for a line service after-hours call, we elected to go to a nearby airport to refuel. We chose ZZZI, which had low-intensity runway lighting and self-serve fuel available, or so we thought. So we departed towards ZZZI. The total enroute time was 20 minutes. We estimated we would have 4 usable gallons remaining. This was legal per actual fuel consumption numbers, but per a conservative burn rate estimate, it would have been below my personal minimums. I had not realized this until later when I would write this report. When we arrived over ZZZI, we realized that the low-intensity runway lights were inoperative. This was an unexpected problem. Further complicating the matter is that this airport is located in essentially the middle of nowhere. I could see the beacon briefly illuminate portions of the pavement as it rotated around, but I could not take the chance at landing on a dark runway in unfamiliar territory. With 4 usable gallons remaining, we were now technically in emergency fuel status, but did not realize it at the time. We did know, however, that our fuel situation was getting uncomfortably tight. We had to make the decision to go back to ZZZ or choose another airport. We believed ZZZ would be slightly upwind and another airport to be slightly downwind based on our wind aloft estimations. The slightly downwind airport was ZZZ2, and it had self-serve fuel. The total time to ZZZ2 would be about 25 minutes. A conservative fuel burn estimate of 6 gallons/hour would mean we would use 3 gallons. In writing this report, I realize that would leave us with 1 usable gallon remaining. While actually flying the leg, I failed to account for the "unusable" fuel and figured we would land with 5 gallons, failing to remember that 3.5 gallons of that would be unusable. I believe I was in denial about the whole situation. I notified the overlying approach control of the lighting situation at ZZZI and requested flight following to ZZZ2. The Approach Controller acknowledged my report and provided us with radar flight following to ZZZ2.
Thankfully, all of our fuel calculation with a 20% more conservative burn rate than what is published in the POH. Despite knowing we had inflated the burn rate to be conservative, I was extremely nervous going into ZZZ2 because of the thought of exhausting all of our usable fuel. We made it to ZZZ2 without incident. When I exited the airplane, I used a dipstick to measure the fuel tank quantity. We had 2.5 gallons per tank for a total of 5 gallons remaining. 3.5 of those total gallons are unusable, meaning we had 1.5 gallons of usable fuel remaining. This was both illegal and below my personal minimums. I was horrified at what had happened. The chain of events went as follows: We depart at maximum gross weight with 16 gallons of fuel. We plan to arrive at an airport before the FBOs close, but land later than planned. Not wanting to pay an FBO call out fee, we depart for a nearby airport that has both runway lighting and self-serve fuel advertised in the Chart Supplement U.S. We arrive at the nearby airport with minimum fuel only to find the runway lighting inoperative. We make a decision to go to another airport that is downwind of the wind aloft and end up landing with 1 gallon of usable fuel, or 10 minutes of usable fuel remaining. This whole incident has resulted in a big change in approach to how I will conduct night cross country training in the future. First, our SOPs will be amended as follows: I. Flights to any airport must have an ETA of no later than I hour prior to the closing time Of airport fuel vendors if the destination does not have self-serve fuel available. 2. Night flights must have enough usable fuel onboard to reach two alternate airports, both of which must have fuel available and airfield lighting. 3. In the event a flight lands at the planned destination and no fuel vendors or self-serve fuel are available, students are required to pay the call out fee to refuel. At night, the alternate airports may be flown to only if a call out is not possible. Next, I will be more involved in the cross country planning of my students. I should have recognized the fact that ZZZ had no fueling available well prior to arriving there after the FBOs had closed. And I should have required my student to pay a call out fee rather than agreeing to fly somewhere else considering that we didn't have legal fuel remaining to make it to an alternate should our refueling airport be closed, or in this case, should our refueling airport have an unexpected lighting outage. I reported the outage to the overlying approach control listed in this report. I then called FSS in the morning to report the outage. The Approach Controller seemed uninterested in the problem, and the FSS specialist referred me to the airport administration. When I called the airport administration, the manager was unavailable, and I was told to leave a message. To this day, 48 hours later, the problem has not been fixed, and no NOTAM has been issued. Synopsis Cessna 150 flight instructor reported departing with minimal fuel after founding that fuel was unavailable at the destination airport when the FBO closed.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZZZZ.ARTCC State Reference : FO Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 35000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : MD-II Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Cargo / Freight Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass A : ZZZZ Component Aircraft Component : Fuel Quantity-Pressure Indication Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person : Company Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Dispatch : Dispatcher Qualification.Dispatch : Dispatcher ASRS Report Number Accession Number : Person : 3 1474087 1473441
Reference : 3 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1473753 Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue Detector.Automation : Aircraft Other Automation Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Returned To Departure Airport Result.Flight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.FIight Crew : Landed As Precaution Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 During climb out we received a level 1 alert indicating the Manifold Drain valve was open. Utilizing the QRH we verified the switch was actually not in the open position, verified the light bulb was operable, and the QRH consequence of not utilizing the cross-feed manifold as the fuel would drain if it were open. This was followed by another alert Tank 2 LOW with an indication of ZERO fuel on the synoptic display. Engine 2 continued to operate. The tank 10 alert disappeared, we cycled to manual and back to automatic on the Fuel Controller and the Manifold Drain alert disappeared. Almost immediately later at the top of climb the above two alerts re-appeared with zero again in tank 2 but with 600 LBS and 1200 LBS of fuel in tank 1 & 3 respectively without tank 1 & 3 low alerts. The Fuel Quantity/Used Check along with a WHITE "possible fuel leak" alert displayed on the Fuel synoptic. Captain requested and executed an immediate turn-back and when queried if it was a mayday event replied yes. We received excellent ATC support and flew directly back to the airport. The procedures for preparing to return went exceptionally smooth after the event. We approached high and fast just in case and had time to re-verify our fuel, discuss airspeeds and take pictures of the status on the synoptic displays. At the FAF, we were stable and in the groove followed by an uneventful landing. The fuel system went back to normal and the 32,000 LBS of actual fuel on board was on display. The fuel system was giving erroneous indications first with a manifold drain valve alert suggesting the drain valve was open and to not utilize cross-feed. We verified the alert was questionable by observing that the Manifold Drain switch did not indicate open and the bulb was verified operable. The second alert indicated Tank number 2 fuel was low and the indication was ZERO O! Engine two continued to operate without cross-feed so again we verified the alert was probably erroneous. The follow on alerts were an escalation of
more suspected indications but were treated as possibly actual as there is no way of knowing with certainty that they were erroneous. Narrative: 2 Received diversion report from [this] flight as it approached top of climb. ACARs sent to crew, they confirmed returning to [the airport] due to fuel quantity issue. Aircraft landed safely, after which Captain called on to advise they had received multiple fuel quantity, fuel low and fuel manifold alerts and were unable to determine exactly how much fuel was on aircraft. Crew did [informed of the mayday event] on the return, no fuel was dumped. [Supervisor] notified manager on duty (no airport manager present) and I notified duty officer and submitted shift note as per procedure. At time of [this report], aircraft is still down in at the airport and next leg will likely cancel. Narrative: 3 Just after top of climb at FL 350, we received the following alerts: Fuel Manifold Drain, Fuel Quantity/Used Check, and TANK 2 Fuel Quantity Low. Fuel tank quantities indicated 600, O, 1200 respectively. Totalizer showed 1800 LBS remaining. We had departed with 46,800 LBS. We [informed ATC], ran the QRH procedures and were expedited back to the airport. Landing and taxi back to parking were uneventful. My First Officer did an outstanding job coordinating and planning the turn back to the airfield. He also reminded me to check my AOA (Angle Of Attack) on final. We did bump up the speed a few knots to bring us into the lower part of the AOA band. After landing the fuel systems returned to normal indications. Synopsis An MD-II flight crew reported erroneous indications from the fuel systems during climb, resulting in a return to the departure airport.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : BNA.Airport State Reference : TN Relative Position. Distance. Nautical Miles : 7 Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 2000 Environment Flight Conditions : Mixed Weather Elements / Visibility : Haze / Smoke Weather Elements / Visibility.VisibiIity : 6 Ceiling.SingIe Value : 2500 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : BNA Aircraft Operator : FBO Make Model Name : Travelair 95 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Training Nav In Use. Localizer/GIidesIope/ILS Flight Phase : Final Approach Airspace.Class C : BNA Component : 1 Aircraft Component : Engine Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Failed Component : 2 Aircraft Component : Fuel Selector Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Improperly Operated Component : 3 Aircraft Component : VHF Problem : Malfunctioning Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : FBO : Runway 20C
Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.FIight Crew : Trainee Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 260 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 30 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 1 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1473826 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Training / Qualification Human Factors : Confusion Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : FBO Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Function.FIight Crew : Instructor Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1474486 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Overcame Equipment Problem Result.Flight Crew : Landed As Precaution Result.FIight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Result.Aircraft : Equipment Problem Dissipated Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 The incident happened while tracking the ILS inbound to 20 center at BNA. This being my first flight in this aircraft, as well as my first flight in a multi engine aircraft, I was still adjusting to the aircraft while I also attempted to run through the pre-landing check list. One of the items on this list is to switch the fuel lines from auxiliary to mains, and in doing so I unknowingly switched the fuel line to the left engine into the off position instead of the main position. The engine began to fail, and at this time, unbeknownst to us, the comm button on the copilot side got stuck. We declared the engine out but failed to receive any transmissions back from tower for several minutes. After troubleshooting the issue, we uncovered my mistake and successfully restarted the engine and continued the
approach. It wasn't until we were clear of the active runway that we were able to resolve the comms issue. Narrative: 2 I was conducting flight training with a student and I was occupying the co-pilots seat. Using the "before landing checklist" I asked the student to switch the fuel selector from the AUX position to the main position for landing. The student inadvertently switched the fuel selector to the OFF position on the left engine without my knowledge. Consequently the left engine started to fail. I took control of the aircraft. Feathered the propeller, and transmitted to Approach Control that I had an emergency, and engine failure and was landing visually on runway 20L. I had no response from Approach Control at this time. I then proceeded to troubleshoot the cause and discovered that the left engine fuel selector switch had been placed in the "OFF" position by the student. I immediately placed the switch to the "main tank" position and re-started the engine. I then transmitted to Approach Control that the emergency situation had been resolved and that I was landing visually on Runway 20L. No response was received from Approach Control. I then attempted to contact the tower but no response. I then went back to Approach Control and asked the controller if I had been cleared to land, she informed me of a stuck mike and to contact tower. I again attempted to contact the tower but to no avail. I received a green light from the tower to land. I landed and cleared the runway and in a few moments was able to use the radio and communicated with Ground Control. In retrospect, I should have confirmed that the fuel selector switch had been placed in the proper position. The student prior to flight had thoroughly been taught the fuel system. Synopsis A BE95 Student and Instructor Pilot reported that the left engine failed due to fuel starvation because he had mistakenly placed the fuel selector switch to "OFF" instead of "MAIN TANK" during the before landing checklist. The instructor discovered and corrected the problem and subsequently restarted the engine.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : COS.Airport State Reference : CO Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 1000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility Weather Elements / Visibility Weather Elements / Visibility Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier : Thunderstorm : Turbulence : Windshear Make Model Name : Medium Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Flight Phase : Landing Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : Human Factors : Time Pressure Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function. Flight Crew : First Officer ASRS Report Number Accession Number : Human Factors : Time Pressure Events 1473689 1473689
Anomaly.Deviation - Speed : All Types Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Unstabilized Approach Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue Detector. Person : Flight Crew Result.Flight Crew : Landed As Precaution Result.Flight Crew : Executed Go Around / Missed Approach Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Weather Narrative: 1 The flight started normally. My First Officer (FO) and I discussed the weather surrounding COS before and during the flight. Noticeable virga was on the approach end about 10 miles north of 17L. The airport was not reporting windshear or wind gusts on the last ATIS. A flaps 45 landing was used on the first approach. A red wind shear appeared and we executed a go-around. I am not sure, but we may have gone over 200 kts during the go-around in Class C. The weather was still VFR for COS and the storms were moving away from the airport. The weather had thunderstorm activity between COS and our filed alternate. A quick discussion of our options resulted in another attempt to land at COS. On the second approach, we used a flaps 22 landing. Another red windshear appeared and we once again executed another go-around. Our best option still appeared to be another attempt to land at COS, but on the third attempt I flew the approach. For the third time, we got another windshear warning that quickly went away along with a soft "sink rate, sink rate". With the fuel running low, a flight to KDEN would have put us in a min fuel status and there was weather that would require additional vectors off course. On all three approaches, the windshear felt minimal and I did not expect to get a windshear message with the storms at its distance away from the field. Although we were told the storms were moving away from the field, I did not want to risk having the storm change directions and further limit our options. Also, the windshear message went away and I adjusted the aircraft to not allow another sink rate aural message. After quickly reviewing our options, we agreed to continue the approach and land in the interest of safety. The aircraft was fully configured above 1000 AGL and no aircraft limitations were exceeded, although I was fast on the approach. The threats included windshear, thunderstorms in the vicinity, thunderstorms enroute to our filed alternate, thunderstorms approaching our filed alternate, a high workload environment, and a steadily decreasing amount of fuel. Narrative: 2 After a normal flight with myself as pilot flying, during our arrival brief the Captain and I briefed the possibility of a go around due to a small thunderstorm north of the COS airport and the steps involved in go around. Our alternate was DEN with thunderstorms expected in the vicinity. As we approached the field, still with approach control, we visually saw the thunderstorm which was about 6 miles north of the 17 L runway. Approach informed us about the thunderstorm as well and said no aircraft had any issues with getting in and no unusual weather alerts were given. It was my leg to fly, the Captain and I briefed the risks and that we would need to be fully configured early to avoid an unstable approach. This would be a flaps 45 landing. Flaps 8 was called for early and then gear down and flaps 22
was called for on our extended left base and inside outer marker. Turning final, I asked for flaps 45 and landing check. I was a little high and corrected and was stabilized by 1000 feet, I believe about 1 to 1.5 miles from the end of runway we received a Windshear red alert, thus we executed a go-around. We climbed out to our assigned altitude and reconfigured, briefed what happened and I quickly asked either the tower or the approach control, what direction the thunderstorm was moving, they said storm was basically moving ENE away from the field. The Captain and I briefed the approach and landing again, believing that it was safe to execute another approach and landing, but instead using flaps 22. We executed the approach with the same result, a Windshear almost in the same spot. We executed a go around and after a quick discussion and review Of the weather and weather at the alternate, I transferred the controls to the Captain so he could execute the approach in the interest of safety. We briefed the weather/risks, approach and landing, and executed a flaps 22 landing with the same results, a Windshear warning, however, the warning was only on for a matter of maybe 2 seconds and went away then a soft sink rate, however quickly went away. After a quick discussion we both felt the safest option was to land the aircraft. The short final was stable, however fast (which was briefed) and we landed with no further issue. At no time did I feel nervous or that we were operating in a unsafe manner. I believe the Captain acted and operated in the most professional manner. Threats included windshear, thunderstorms in the vicinity, thunderstorms enroute to and at our alternate, a high workload environment and a always decreasing amount of fuel. After first approach and go around we could have diverted to our alternate, however before we even left ZZZ I checked the radar and Denver had thunderstorms building to the west and south west and also Pueblo would normally be a good alternate but they had storms as well. We could have diverted to the alternate with the same results, but with landing with even lower fuel. We could have executed a hold but, according to controllers, the storm was not moving much. Synopsis Flight crew reported windshear warnings while attempting to land at the COS airport that resulted in two missed approaches. A third attempt was attempted in lieu of a diversion, and a successful landing was accomplished.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 3000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility : Haze / Smoke Weather Elements / Visibility : Rain Weather Elements / Visibility.VisibiIity : 7 Light : Daylight Ceiling.Single Value : 12000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Aeronca Champion Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Training Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.Class E : ZZZ Component Aircraft Component : Powerplant Fuel System Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1473537 Human Factors : Troubleshooting Human Factors : Situational Awareness Analyst Callback : Completed
Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Diverted Result. Flight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Result.FIight Crew : Landed As Precaution Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 On the way to ZZZ airport to get fuel the engine started to stutter. I immediately pulled carb heat, verified mixture full rich, and fuel selector on, fuel gauge showing to have fuel, oil pressure and temperature both in the green. I continually pumped the throttle, as that seemed to be the only thing to keep the engine running partially. I looked for the private grass strips that I know of in the area, I was too far and too low to make it to them so I continued toward the best field options I could see when I remembered a friend of my boss had a big field he said we could land at just north of ZZZ. I then located the field and proceeded to circle the field while performing my final check list. I secured the engine and preformed a textbook 3 point soft field landing. I called my boss and he promptly arrived with an aircraft mechanic to inspect the airplane. They found absolutely no evidence of a problem so they started the airplane and my boss flew it back to the airport where he could have it checked tested and fixed. NO one was injured, no damage to persons or property occurred, and the airplane was in perfect flying condition. The airplane is now grounded until the issue can be found, however, my boss could not duplicate the issue and the engine ran perfectly smooth on the way back to the airport. The only thing they could come up with to this point is carb ice or vapor lock. Those are just guesses seeing how the issue cannot be duplicated. Also, I used carb heat and it only seemed to escalate the issue, progressively losing power and never restoring fuel flow. When pumping the throttle the engine would start back up for about a second per pump. This continued for about 2 minutes before it stopped healing and the engine stopped completely. Callback: 1 The reporter stated that the field where he made the emergency landing was a field that they used for practicing soft field landing. He added that maintenance has replaced the fuel line precautionary and ensured that the carb heat was working properly. They were unable to determine the actual cause of the engine shutting down, but suspect icing was the probable cause since the aircraft has been operating normally since the incident. Synopsis Aeronca Pilot reported landing in an open field due to a loss of engine power.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZZZ.ARTCC State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 40000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility : Turbulence Weather Elements / Visibility.Vlsibility : 50 Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Corporate Make Model Name : Gulfstream 11 (G1159) Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Direct Airspace.CIass A : ZZZ Component : 1 Aircraft Component : Turbine Engine Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Failed Component : 2 Aircraft Component : Fuel Aircraft Reference : X Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Corporate Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification.FIight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument
Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 20000 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 21 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 5500 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1473130 Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Corporate Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 2020 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 20 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 10 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1473544 Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action Result.FIight Crew : Diverted Result.Flight Crew : Inflight Shutdown Result.Flight Crew : Overcame Equipment Problem Result.FIight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Flight Crew : Landed As Precaution Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 We were cruising at FL400 when right engine rolled back. Turned ON ignition, engine would not re-light, [advised ATC]. Requested descent to FL300. Donned oxygen mask. Engine restarted about FL310, leveled at FL300. Requested a nearby airport for landing. Next day, drained several times some fuel from each wing tank sumps about 1-2 gallons each to find about a cup of water in the right fuel tank. No water was further found. Restarted both engine to find all is normal. Mechanic's belief is [the] water interrupted the fuel to the engine to cause a rollback. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis
G1159 flight crew reported the #2 engine rolled back in cruise flight at FL400. Engine relight was successful after descent, and after landing about a cup of water was found after draining a few gallons from the right fuel tank.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZZZ.TRACON State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 6000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : PA-44 Seminole/Turbo Seminole Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Training Flight Phase : Descent Route In Use : Vectors Airspace.Class E : ZZZ Component Aircraft Component : Engine Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Failed Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Private Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 158 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 87 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 55 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1471843 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events
Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Inflight Shutdown Result.Flight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Result.FIight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 During preflight I visually inspected the fuel, and could see that there was fuel, but did not physically verify. Also checked the fuel level gauges which both indicated full tanks. Concluded that there was enough fuel in order to complete the flight. Upon descent we experienced a right engine failure and determined that it was caused by insufficient fuel in the right tank. The fuel gauge had rapidly dropped to zero, and we had a complete loss of fuel pressure. After running an emergency checklist I contacted ATC. ATC gave [us] vectors [and] we made a visual landing without incident. This situation could have been avoided by physically verifying fuel level in both tanks instead of relying on the fuel level indications on the gauges. Synopsis PA-44 pilot reported the right engine failed on descent into destination airport when the right fuel tank ran dry.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility State Reference : OH Environment Weather Elements / Visibility Weather Elements / Visibility Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZOB Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier : ZOB.ARTCC : Thunderstorm : Windshear Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Approach Airspace.CIass A : ZOB Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1470687 Human Factors : Time Pressure Events Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue Detector. Person : Flight Crew Were Passengers Involved In Event . •N When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Diverted Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Weather
Narrative: 1 Original flight scheduled to ROC, diverted to ZZZ due to TRs at ROC. At the folder noticed fuel was about 10.3 at ROC no alternate with lots of weather in route. I added 3k. After takeoff ATC leveled us at 310 initially. They said this would be a final. Sent [Operations] a msg. After a bit they gave us 330 as a final. Enroute we have to deviate for WX quite a bit. On arrival several thunderstorms in the area. We flew over ZZZ and it looked fine. Noticed the radar displayed strong storms east and southeast and south of ROC and closing in on the airport. We were getting vectors for the approach and handed off to tower. We were on a right dogleg and Tower reported winds gusting to 30 and the last jet that attempted to land was an Airbus 319 that reported +\- 15 and a 600 ft loss on final. I could see the strong rain down shafts and lightning almost at the field and discontinued the approach. At this point we had about Ilk on gas. I knew ZZZ was clear and I decided to go. ZZZ is a very short flight from ROC. The FO (First Officer) was flying and I was getting our clearance to ZZZ as well as diverting the box, loading the app, getting AT IS, working the radar, and doing landing data. We landed and I called [Operations] then because I just flat didn't have time to tell them in flight, very time compressed. We blocked in with 8.9 fob (Fuel on Board). 1900 lbs above emergency fuel, glad I added 3k. Synopsis Air Carrier Captain reported diverting due to thunderstorms at the destination airport and fuel concerns.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 700 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility : Thunderstorm Weather Elements / Visibility : Windshear Weather Elements / Visibility : Rain Aircraft Reference : X ATC/ Advisory.Tower : ZZZ ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8747 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 3 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Final Approach Route In Use : Vectors Airspace.Class B : ZZZ Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 8226 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 1110 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1470577 Human Factors : Time Pressure Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck
Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Relief Pilot Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 9206 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 6686 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1470564 Person : 3 Reference : 3 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 15504 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 13801 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1470561 Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Unstabilized Approach Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Weather Narrative: 1 We were on the approach to ZZZ, about 18 mile final and were watching a large storm cell over the airport. As we got closer ATC issued a micro burst alert for 50 knot wind gains and losses on final. We elected to abandon the approach and since the cell appeared to be moving quickly across the field, we elected to have delay vectors to evaluate the rapidly changing weather. We had about 1+20 minutes of fuel remaining. We were sent on a heading to ZZZZZ and switched to ZZZI approach. The controller there had clearly lost the picture of his traffic situation and did not answer our initial transmissions. We continued to have difficulty establishing communication with approach. The IRO (International Relief Officer) was communicating with dispatch to change our alternate to something closer to our current position than ZZZ2, but were told that none of the local area airports were suitable. We evaluated our fuel state and determined that we needed to divert to ZZZ2 without delay to arrive with sufficient fuel. Again, the controller seemed to not hear our transmissions and at one point made a blind broadcast to us by our transponder code. We finally got a heading to ZZZ2 after declaring minimum fuel. In addition, we had to deviate around scattered cells as we headed to ZZZ2. We were switched to ZZZ approach as we had to go by ZZZ on our way to ZZZ. The controller
informed us that Runway XYR was available for landing if we wanted it. We evaluated the situation and saw a large gap between cells that would allow a visual approach. We were vectored till we saw the airport and were cleared for a visual approach to XYR. I noticed the First Officer appeared to have the wrong runway in sight and was slightly high on the approach. He reported XYR in sight and I was providing verbal corrections to position us for the visual approach. We had to maneuver around a rain shower between us and the runway and I noticed we were trending to low when we got a below glide slope alert. We immediately corrected back to course and because of our position on an angling left base, we needed to make a turn to line up with the runway at 700 feet. My normal reaction is not to try to salvage a bad approach, but to go around and do it again. I felt that considering our fuel state, about 40 min remaining, and the rapidly changing weather we needed to land rather than go around, and that we could do it safely. The approach resembled the IGS [Instrument Guidance System] into the old Hong Kong airport. We were lined up and on speed at 400 feet and the wind at the airport remained less than 5 knots. We landed exactly in the touchdown zone and taxied to the gate without further incident. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional inforr•nation.] Narrative: 3 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis 3747 flight crew reported beginning to divert due to weather and minimum fuel but ended up going to the original destination.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.VisibiIity Light : Daylight Ceiling : CLR Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Mooney Aircraft Undifferentiated or Other Model Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Initial Climb Route In Use : None Airspace.Class D : ZZZ Component : 1 Aircraft Component : Engine Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Component : 2 Aircraft Component : Fuel System Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Improperly Operated Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Instructor Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 6000 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 3 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 700 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1470402 Events
Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Landed As Precaution Result.Flight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Contacted ground for taxi to takeoff. After run up cleared for takeoff. Just after liftoff the engine started to run very rough. Pushed over to maintain gliding speed and flared with a successful touch down on the remaining runway. After clearing the active runway the engine shut down. Switched tanks and was able to restart the engine and taxied to the ramp. Synopsis Mooney M20 pilot reported landing on remaining runway after the engine began running rough shortly after takeoff. Engine ran normally on the ground after switching fuel tanks.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 1600 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Personal 10 Make Model Name : PA-18/19 Super Cub Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Flight Phase : Initial Climb Route In Use : None Airspace.CIass G : ZZZ Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Make Model Name : Sail Plane Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Flight Phase : Initial Climb Airspace.CIass G : ZZZ Component Aircraft Component : Fuel Quantity-Pressure Indication Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Design Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1469213
Confusion Human Factors : : Human-Machine Interface Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Workload Human Factors Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.FIight Crew : Returned To Departure Airport Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 While conducting glider towing operations, I was the only pilot in the tow plane with a glider in tow. During initial climb out at full power (at approximately 500 ft AGL), my airplane experienced a sudden power loss. I immediately switched fuel tanks and power was restored. However, during the period of power loss the tow plane descended relative to the glider, who therefore wisely disconnected the towline from his end and conducted a flawless return to the takeoff point. Meanwhile, with power restored but not certain why I had lost power, I climbed approximately 1,500 feet AGL over the runway (a private grass strip), from which point I conducted an idle descent and landing. After landing, I conducted a power check (magnetos) which normal results. After shutting down, I examined the aircraft's fuel quantity and discovered that the initially-selected tank (LEFT) appeared empty. The right tank contained an estimated 1.5 hours of fuel (approximately 10 gal). I had, until this point, estimated my left tank as containing at least 5 gallons of fuel and planned to switch to the right tank after the tow that was being conducted. The aircraft's fuel quantity indications are sight glasses on the inboard wing root, in the cockpit's overhead and are known to be poor, especially on uneven ground. We added fuel into the left tank, debriefed the event and continued operations without further incident. Synopsis A PA-18 towing a glider reported a loss of power after takeoff. The pilot quickly recovered by selecting the other fuel tank and upon landing discovered the initially selected fuel tank was empty.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZZZZ.ARTCC State Reference : FO Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 11000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.center : ZZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8747 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 4 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Cargo / Freight Flight Phase : Climb Component : 1 Aircraft Component : Landing Gear Indicating System Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Component : 2 Aircraft Component : Fuel Distribution System Problem : Failed Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 14000 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 90 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 3000 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1468629 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Person : 2
Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 8500 Experience. Flight Crew. Last 90 Days : 150 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 3000 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1468632 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Person : 3 Reference : 3 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Other / Unknown Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 150 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 150 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1468630 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Weight And Balance Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue Detector.Automation : Aircraft Other Automation Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result. Flight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Result.Flight Crew : Landed As Precaution Result.FIight Crew : Returned To Departure Airport Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 After rotation with the positive rate gear up call the gear handle was raised and we received the ECIAS message Gear Disagree. We continued with the departure and I advised the IRO (International Relief Officer) to read the QRH procedure. We advised ATC we had a Gear problem and advised them of our situation. I contacted Flight Control and with Maintenance, Dispatch, and a SME (Subject Matter Expert) we discussed the problem and determined that the best course of action was return to [the airport]. Dispatch sent an ARTR (Amended Release to Read) and we dumped fuel for the return. On the STAR we received an EICAS Fuel Imbalance 1 and 4 followed by EICAS Fuel Imbalance 2 and 3. All attempts using the QRH Procedures proved unsuccessful. Fuel imbalance continued to deteriorate. Fuel was draining out of Tank 1 rapidly. We then ran the fuel leak checklist. We determined that the fuel was not leaking externally but going into tank Number 2. The fuel would not stop draining from tank Number I into tank Number 2. We looked for
further guidance in the QRH but could not find any. Using system knowledge we chose to open the cross feed and feed engine Number I from tank 2 and turn off the pumps on engine Number 1. The fuel continued to leave tank 1 and go into tank 2. Upon landing the difference between tank I and 4 was 10,000 pounds. The fuel imbalance 2-3 was brought back into tolerance by using tank 2 to feed 1,2, and 3 engines. When tank I continued to drain uncommanded we declared PAN PAN PAN at which time ATC gave us expedited handling. Landing was uneventful. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Narrative: 3 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis The flight crew of a B747 reported they received an EICAS message "Gear Disagree" and also had an un-commanded fuel transfer.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Place Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 16000 Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Citation Excel (C560XL) Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : IFR Flight Phase : Climb Airspace.CIass E : ZZZ Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1468352 Events Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : Pre-flight Result.Flight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Company Policy Narrative: 1 The Company routinely flight plans with a planned altitude on a departure fix in order to account for the higher fuel consumption when departing a satellite airport. However, when such processes are used in the Company's flight planning it ends up filling such initial lower altitude as the requested final altitude to ATC. Unfortunately, the FAA's ATC system does not seem to recognize the subsequent altitude changes included in the ICAO flight plan.
The issue with such a lower altitude being filed is that it may lead to a different route then the one that would be received for the higher altitudes. This presents a number of risk factors E.g. Not enough fuel, multiple full route clearance changes, etc. Today's flight was planned for FL400; however, we were cleared with a planned final altitude of 16000 FT. Clearance delivery was not able to change the planned altitude and we had to ask one of the subsequent ARTCC controllers to change the altitude. Synopsis Cessna 560XLS Captain reported that the FAA's ATC system does not seem to recognize the subsequent altitude changes included in the ICAO flight plan.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZSPD.Airport State Reference : FO Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZSHA Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B787 Dreamliner Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Descent Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Relief Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1468112 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.FIight Crew : Diverted Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Weather Procedure Weather
Narrative: 1 I was the [relief pilot] on this flight. Just before the landing, the crew returned from break we updated weather and everything looked normal for arrival and landing into ZSPD. Once the landing crew got in their seats, PVG approach started to give us a speed reduction and then eventually a delay turn to the north. Approach was very vague on the reason other than traffic. We flew north for some time and queried why. Eventually they turned us back towards arrival and we were told number 2 for landing and the reason was weather. Our weather radar wasn't painting anything that caused us concern. Our fuel by this time was getting close to bingo however we were assured that they will get us right in as we told approach fuel was critical. Once on the arrival the controller said 35 minute delay. This was not going to work for us so we told controller we will fly direct to our alternate of ZZZZ. He gave us a vector that was not direct and held us at a lower altitude. We then [advised ATC] and flew direct ZZZZ and continued our climb. This was caused by a communication problem with the controller. It was late into the arrival before we realized it was a weather delay. The controller did not understand our fuel situation and continued to lead us on. Even after we [advised them of the severity of the situation] he tried to vector us and keep us down low. Unacceptable considering our fuel state. Controllers in Shanghai need to understand how to communicate with English carriers. The need to be very clear on the reasons for delays and real time expected delays. Dispatchers can help by being more proactive with information on flow into Shanghai and expected delays. As we pass the South Korean Peninsula it would be nice to know how things are looking on the arrival. It's easier to stop in Incheon for fuel than zzzz. Synopsis 3787 First Officer reported the controllers at ZSPD did not convey the actual delays to be expected during arrival, and did not expedite a clearance to the alternate after being advised of the low fuel state.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 7500 Environment Weather Elements / Visibility : Haze / Smoke Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : 10 Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Skylark 175 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Final Approach Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use : Direct Airspace.CIass D : ZZZ Component Aircraft Component : Engine Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Failed Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Private Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 155 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 15 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 14 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1467190 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events
Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Result.Aircraft : Aircraft Damaged Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 [We] performed our preflight with no prevalent issues. We had planned to take fuel that morning so we proceeded to fill the tanks with 7.5 gallons each side of IOOLL Avgas to a total of roughly 46 gallons total, 9 Of which are unusable. We got a briefing online from ForeFlight mobile, no weather hazards besides a few TFRs to the south of our flight path. Our engine run up went well, magneto checks were good, carburetor check came back positive, and nothing seemed to be out of the ordinary. All engine gauges were green. Our flight was direct to ZZZ, with a slight maneuver around the mountains to the WNW. We were told by Tower to follow the Galaxy jet on a 10 mile final, and we proceeded on course behind them. About 7 miles out, with carb heat on, descent checklist followed correctly, and RPM/Mixture accounted for, we had a major loss in RPM indicated on the tachometer. Figuring it may be too lean of a mix, coming from 9,500 ft cruising altitude, we enriched our mixture to no avail, the engine continued to lower its performance. At this point, [my passenger] notified the tower that we had an engine failure with a mayday call. I had control of the plane [on this leg] and [my passenger] did callouts on the restart checklist, which yielded some rise in RPMs from 1000 to 2200 when the throttle and starter were engaged for quite a few times. [My passenger] took controls since he is the registered owner of the aircraft and I attempted to restart many times as [my passenger] talked to ATC. The full checklist had been attempted 8 times prior to landing, to no success. About 3 miles out our prop went dead and stopped completely. We fell below the glide path and realized there is no possibility that we land at ZZZ, so [my passenger] chose the field about a mile and a half from the airport and proceeded to land the plane in said field with myself following on controls in case anything were to happen on the landing. We then stopped the plane where it was found upright in the ditch, shut off all systems to secure the aircraft and immediately exited the plane. We removed ourselves to a safe distance in case any hazardous fluids were to escape and cause fire. First responders were there within 20 minutes of the incident. No harm was done to us and the aircraft had minimal damage to the engine cowling. There is a possible fuel leak on the right wing that may have caused fuel starvation. Synopsis C175 pilot reported a loss of engine power on final approach led to an off-field landing.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Environment Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : 10 Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Chancellor 414A / C414 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : None Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Route In Use : Direct Component Aircraft Component : Fuel Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Improperly Operated Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying ASRS Report Number Accession Number : Human Factors : Situational Awareness Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.FIight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 980 1467188
Experience.Flight Crew. Last 90 Days : 60 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 40 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1467176 Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Diverted Result.Flight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Result.Flight Crew : Landed As Precaution Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 The aircraft was fueled by the [airport] FBO. The tanks were checked after and appeared to contain IOOLL. After Takeoff abnormal indications were observed by the pilot flying and pilot observing. High CHT temps were the main concern. Power was reduced and airspeed was increased to remedy the problem. There was no change. The pilot observing requested to see the fuel receipt from the pilot flying. The receipt indicated that the aircraft was fueled with Jet A. The pilot observing who the more experienced pilot is, was called for the controls and took over the aircraft. The aircraft was immediately turn towards [a diversion airport]. Approach was notified. The crew switched to the aux tanks which contained uncontaminated IOOLL. The aircraft safely landed. The crew and passengers were unharmed. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis The flight crew of a C-414 reported that the aircraft was fueled using "Jet A" instead of 100 LL fuel.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility : Rain Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 4500 Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Corporate 10 Make Model Name : Small Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Landing Route In Use : Visual Approach Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1466184 Human Factors : Time Pressure Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Ground Excursion : Runway Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Object Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Loss Of Aircraft Control Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected. Other Result.General : None Reported / Taken Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Upon landing, the Pilot in Command (PIC) was unable to stop the aircraft on [the] runway. The aircraft struck a taxiway light, departed the runway and came to a rest on grass on the west side of the runway. Landing speed was calculated at 109 knots and approximately 3600 feet of runway. ATIS reported winds at time of arrival were 220 at 10 knots. The PIC declared a low fuel situation with approximately 500 lbs of fuel remaining and was cleared to land. Synopsis A corporate jet First Officer reported a runway excursion when the PIC was unable to stop the aircraft.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 1500 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 12000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal 10 Make Model Name : Cardinal 177/177 RG Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Climb Route In Use : Direct Airspace.CIass E : ZZZ Component Aircraft Component : Engine Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 1340 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 53 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 885 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1465904 Events
Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action Result.Flight Crew : Landed As Precaution Result.Flight Crew : Diverted Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 Shortly after taking off, while leaning during climb the engine starting running rough. I noticed that cylinder #2 and #4 had no EGT. Looked up and saw [an airport] about 7 miles ahead and found frequency and [advised ATC] and made a normal straight in landing. Asked where the maintenance shop was and taxied. Door was locked. Fireman called mechanic and no one picked up. I called my mechanic and discussed the problem. This plane 2 years previously had a similar problem and was found to be a clogged fuel injector. Mechanic asked if I had access to tools. Fireman was able to get access to the hangar and tools. My mechanic told me where the fuel injectors were and how to remove them. Found #2 and #4 were partially blocked and I cleaned them with compressed air. Followed mechanic's instructions to replace the injectors. Started the plane and did a mag check and found that #2 and #4 were working properly on both mags. Later flew plane to mechanic. He called Lycoming and felt it best to replace the fuel pump and several components in the fuel system. He also replaced the fuel injectors with the newer style. Synopsis C177RG pilot reported diverting after the engine began running rough. Problem was later traced to partially clogged fuel injectors in cylinders #2 and #4.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : PHX.Airport State Reference : AZ Environment Weather Elements / Visibility : Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : PHX Windshear ATC / Advisory.TRACON : Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Widebody Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Initial Approach Airspace.CIass B : PHX Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1465525 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result. Flight Crew : Landed As Precaution Result.Flight Crew : Diverted Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Weather
Narrative: 1 On arrival, PHX was experiencing wind-shear and microburst activity and a dust storm was approaching. On visual approach to runway 7R at PHX wind-shear and microburst alerts were activating, PIREPs were reporting 20 knot loss of airspeed on final. Elected not to descend at the VDP, fly straight through initial and avoid wind-shear conditions. WX Conditions remained over PHX airport and continued to degrade in the surrounding area. After 20 minutes of vectoring informed PHX Approach control that we will be reaching a fuel critical / emergency fuel state if not on the ground by then. Flight crew was coordinating with PHX Tower and Approach control, company dispatcher, PHX Ramp control, to find the safest place to land. Exercising Captains authority I decided to land ZZZ, [a nearby airport]. The landing was uneventful, ground support met us and we shut down, and the fuel system indicted total 10,800 LBS (200 LBS below our emergency fuel amount). The aircraft was serviced and after the severe weather was no longer a threat we took off and flew to PHX (10 NM away). All agencies were coordinated with during this evolution and Duty officer kept apprised of the situation and solicited for advice. Kudos to PHX approach controllers, Ground Services at ZZZ and my First Officer, who's new to the company and been on the line for 4months, all did a great job! Emergency was not declared, as soon a decision was made expeditious traffic handling got us over ZZZ in just moments. Weather forecasted other then what was actually encountered upon arrival. Give us more fuel! Closer monitoring of weather while enroute to destination. Synopsis Widebody Captain reported encountering un-forecast wind shear and microburst activity upon arrival at PHX. After 20 minutes of vectoring the crew elected to divert, landing with 10,800 LBS of fuel.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ORD.Airport State Reference : IL Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 4000 Environment Flight Conditions : IMC Weather Elements / Visibility : Thunderstorm Weather Elements / Visibility : Windshear Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : C90 Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B737 Next Generation Undifferentiated Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use.Localizer/Glideslope/ILS : Runway 9L Flight Phase : Initial Approach Airspace.CIass B : ORD Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1464115 Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Human-Machine Interface Human Factors : Workload Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP)
ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1464131 Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Human-Machine Interface Human Factors : Workload Events Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Overshoot Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Executed Go Around / Missed Approach Result.FIight Crew : FLC Overrode Automation Result.Flight Crew : Diverted Result.Flight Crew : Regained Aircraft Control Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Weather Narrative: 1 This event took place on a flight to ORD. The Captain was the PF. We acknowledged building weather down final when cleared the approach to 9L and switched to tower. We intercepted the glideslope and, at around 2500 ft MSL, encountered a sudden tailwind. With AP (autopilot) engaged, the nose pitched down, throttles went to idle, and the jet was accelerating. The Captain recognized this as a potential microburst situation and called a go-around. FO called the go-around and tower told us to track the localizer and maintain 3000 ft MSL. We maintained airspeed, went flaps 15, and maintained 3000 ft. Tower then directed a left turn to 040, which was a turn into the weather. We delayed the turn and focused on flying the aircraft, though in the process tracked slightly right of course to remain clear of the weather. Tower again gave us the left turn to 040 and we headed that way. Tower then directed a climb to 4000 ft. Some confusion ensued with our automation during this process, though positive aircraft control was always maintained by the Captain. HDG SEL would not initially engage, we believe, because the approach was still armed. Our FDs also did not assist in our climb to 4000 ft because, as memory serves, our command for VS on the MCP did not take. The Captain hand flew the jet but was unable to level off at 4000 ft due to a significant updraft. Both crew members repeatedly acknowledged the impending and actual climb through the assigned altitude and FO reported a "significant updraft" with ATC. We believe that, at most, the jet reached 5000 ft. ATC responded with a quick, respectful, and deferential "okay," understanding that we were aviating first. At this point we were indeed still dealing with the effects of the weather and focused on controlling the aircraft. We finished cleaning up the aircraft and requested a heading to our divert airport. Either due to yoke inputs while flying through the weather, or due to automation difficulties, the Captain's AP would not engage for some time. The Captain told ATC that we were low on fuel and were unwilling "to fly through that thunderstorm again." After receiving our heading to ZZZ we noticed the Captain's FMC was frozen. The FO's FMC was functional and we are not sure when the left FMC froze. Our divert to ZZZ was otherwise uneventful, as was our delayed but successful flight to ORD later that evening. We are certain a go-around was the right decision and are happy we kept the jet at a safe
altitude above the ground. We could have performed a cleaner go-around but were focused on flying the aircraft around the weather and not exceeding any speed limitations. Our impression was that ATC understood that we were busy dealing with significant weather. Their "okay" had a tone of deference and understanding, and we doubt they will mark this as a pilot deviation. In hindsight, we believe the best decision would have been to not accept the approach clearance and ask for a safe heading away from the weather. We did not have situational awareness on whether traffic behind us was cleared the ILS to 9L, but we hope not. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis 3737 flight crew reported a windshear encounter while on approach to ORD. They executed a missed approach and elected to divert due to the weather and their fuel situation.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 400 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 4500 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Make Model Name : M-7 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Training Flight Phase : Takeoff Airspace.Class G : ZZZ Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial 10 Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Experience.FIight Crew. Total : 3153 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 135 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 23 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1463694 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action
Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I departed with a Switzer 2-33 glider on glider orientation flight in tow. At about 400 feet the engine lost power, I signaled the glider to release (easily made it back to the runway), and I quickly sought a place to make an off-airport landing (did not have sufficient altitude to make it back to airport). I landed in a field of low stubble and soggy grass without incident. The aircraft did not appear to be damaged. There were no structures on the ground and no damage/injuries. While there appeared to be more than sufficient fuel for the flight, fuel starvation made have been the cause for the loss of power. Synopsis Glider tow pilot reported a loss of power after takeoff that resulted in an early release of the glider and an off-field landing.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 31000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8737-800 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : GPS Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass A : ZZZ Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1463585 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Analyst Callback : Completed Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1463856 Human Factors : Situational Awareness
Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Weight And Balance Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : MEL Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action Result.Flight Crew : Diverted Result.Flight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 We departed with a cockpit left main fuel quantity indicator placarded inoperative. Per MEL, we received a fuel slip which indicated a total fuel load of 18,500 pounds. At lift off the airplane was right wing heavy and took about one unit of rudder trim to level the wings in cruise. The left fuel quantity indication decreased reaching zero during cruise at 31,000 feet. Immediately thereafter the left engine started to roll back. We opened the fuel crossfeed valve and the engine recovered and continued to run. Advised ATC and requested immediate turn towards ZZZ. Landing was uneventful. Total fuel at shut down 3500 pounds, all of it in the right main tank. Left main tank had no usable fuel remaining in it; this was determined by sticking the tank. Contract maintenance, in coordination with Maintenance Control, subsequently placarded the wing left main fuel quantity indicator (in addition to cockpit left main fuel quantity) inoperative. After aircraft was refueled and fuel quantity verified by sticking the left main tank we ferried the aircraft to ZZZI. The fuel aboard noted on the fuel slip was NOT what we had aboard the aircraft. Retrain the fueler in the proper procedure for fueling the aircraft with an inoperative fuel quantity gauge or change the procedure. This is a serious safety issue and this flight could have had a much worse conclusion. Callback: 1 The reporter confirmed that the Fueler did not dip the tank as required by the MEL, but instead used the wing gauge which was not correct. Narrative: 2 The aircraft logbook indicated that the aircraft had problems with the fuel indicating system. The left main wing tank indicator was inoperative. Although, the gauge still indicated a number on its display, the amount of fuel it indicates was considered to be in error. Following refueling, we received a fuel slip indicating the proper amount Of fuel and reviewed the MEL to ensure the proper procedures were followed in the cockpit. The aircraft flight release included the citation about the fuel indicator. We believed we had received the proper fuel and were properly set for flight. Enroute, about I hour into the flight, the left fuel gauge quantity passed "O" pounds indicated. At that point, the engine continued to operate, indicating that the tank still
contained fuel. However, a few minutes later, the engine RPM began to decay and we felt a momentary yaw. Captain, sensing that the engine was indeed being starved for fuel, immediately opened the main tank fuel crossfeed, the engine recovered. Realizing that we were now in a critical fuel situation (about 4500 lbs remaining), we immediately advised Center and requested a diversion. We had just flown past ZZZ, it was closer, and we knew it was VMC at that time. We immediately turned toward ZZZ and performed an uneventful landing. Our landing fuel state was: Center tank - zero fuel; Left wing tank - zero fuel; Right wing tank - 3500 lbs. Our planned fuel at landing should have been approximately 4200 lbs in each wing tank for a total of approximately 8200 lbs. Captain and I believed the fueling process had not been properly conducted, which resulted in the left tank being shorted approximately 6000 lbs from the desired total of 18000 lbs. There was an error made in fueling the aircraft and the quantity was not verified before or after the fueling process. Although we trusted that the procedure was completed properly, it had not been. An aircraft which is known to have fuel indication problems, should have the fuel 'physically' and 'mathematically' verified. Physically verified with the fuel tank 'sticks' as well as mathematically through computation from prefueling state of the aircraft to the final fuel state. Synopsis 8737 flight crew reported being dispatched with an MEL for a malfunctioning left wing fuel quantity indicator. During cruise when the gauge showed zero fuel, the engine began to lose thrust. The crossfeed was opened, the engine recovered, and the flight diverted.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility State Reference : CO Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility Weather Elements / Visibility Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZDV Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier : ZDV.ARTCC : Thunderstorm : Turbulence Make Model Name : EMB ERJ 145 ER/LR Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : GPS Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Descent Airspace.CIass E : ZDV Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1462890 Human Factors : Time Pressure Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.Flight Crew : Returned To Clearance
Result.FIight Crew : FLC complied w / Automation / Advisory Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Weather Narrative: 1 During our descent into COS the storm cell had moved off the field but ATC informed us that there was a micro-burst alert and they assigned us to hold at the VOR. We discussed our plans if we were not able to get into COS. We settled on DEN as a good plan B. As we held it became apparent that we may not get into COS. I told ATC we'd like to divert to DEN. They informed us there was now a ground stop into DEN. Since we were holding over the PUB airport that became the clear alternative. We checked with dispatch and we could have landed there but there was no fuel available. Our only option then became to [advise ATC of our fuel situation] so that we could get into DEN. Just as we made the turn to DEN ATC informed us that the winds appeared to be dying down in COS. We had just enough fuel to get in so we gave it a try and were able to land without incident. We continued into COS with the emergency because if we had gone missed we would have had to go direct to DEN given our fuel situation. While everything worked 0k alright as we held and burned fuel our options especially in the inter-mountain west became fewer and fewer until we had no choices left except to [advise ATC of the situation] and head to DEN. Synopsis An EMB-145's filed destination closed because of weather and a micro-burst alert so the crew planned a diversion but were advised of a ground stop. As the crew prepared for a diversion, their destination airport opened and the crew continued on.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZZZ.ARTCC State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 41000 Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : A330 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Nav In Use : GPS Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Oceanic Airspace.CIass A : ZZZ Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Function.FIight Crew : Captain Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1462879 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Prior to my flight I was approached by a Check Airman and he told me to pay close attention to fuel due to the fact that on several flights he and several other pilots experienced actual Critical Fuel (CF) trending less than flight planned Critical Fuel. I advised my First Officer of the discussion I had with the Check Airman and we decided to pay close attention to detail on our fuel burn. At the gate we called fuel at 70,000 lbs. Ramp fuel on flight plan was 70,166 and minimum release was 67,846. Fuel on Board (FOB) reduced to 69,822 prior to engine start. Fuel over Destination (FOD) on flight plan was 19,100. MCDU FOD showed 18,100 prior to engine start. Enroute to ZZZ at top of climb we noticed that our fuel over destination showed 17,100 and FOB showed 37.2. Flight plan critical fuel was 37,396. Actual critical fuel was showing less than planned. We sent an ACARS to dispatch to inform them that we were showing less than critical fuel on our MCDU than what was reflected on the Flight Plan. Dispatch responded via ACARS with "copy critical fuel, dispatch." We sent them a second message again and asked them what plan of action we should take and then we got no response. We decided to SATCOM Dispatch directly and explained the above scenario. Dispatcher decided to try running scenarios in his system [to] recover some fuel. He tried removing alternate but it didn't reduce our planned CF enough to reflect what we were going to have. [He] then took our actual ZFW which was less than planned and it gave us a new CF of 37,298. It was the best he could do. It was better than our original on the Flight Plan so he sent us a re- analysis reflecting our new CF of 37,298. At that point we improved somewhat on our CF which was 37,200.. .still close. We decided to call [a company flight] up ahead of us and asked them what their Critical Fuel Situation (spread) was and what their winds were at FL410. They said that their CF was fine and that they had a stronger tailwind of 45 kts versus what we had at our altitude which was about 28 kts. Big difference and I asked them if we could take their altitude to improve our fuel and they obliged. We simultaneously asked for our change of altitudes with ATC and we were granted a climb to FL410 while they descended to FL400. Upon reaching FL410 our CF estimate improved to 37,300 and finally increased to 37,500. Looking back and reviewing our Flight Plan had we took off with min take off fuel of 67,846 with our Flight Plan ETP accumulated Fuel Burn of 30,400, that would leave us with 37,446 at ETP which is only 50 lbs more than the Flight Plan CF of 37,396. This fuel margin is extremely tight. In post-flight discussion with Dispatchers, they advised me that they are being told to reduce the "fuel margins" and cannot increase them unless the Captain requests for more fuel. I think the cause is the pressure put upon the Dispatchers to reduce fuel allowances to save money. This is now causing greater concern about the SAFETY of our flights (regarding fuel) and placing a greater burden on our pilots to be insist that the fuel loads be more scrutinized even more than ever. Synopsis A330 Captain on an intercontinental flight reported a low fuel situation developed when they had less than forecasted tailwinds. Flight requested a higher altitude with better winds.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 35000 Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8737-800 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass A : ZZZ Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 335 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 1000 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1462249 : Troubleshooting Human Factors Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification. Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (AT P) Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 365 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1462252 Person : 3
Reference : 3 Location Of Person : Company Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Dispatch : Dispatcher Qualification.Dispatch : Dispatcher ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1463442 Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Diverted Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 Aircraft Human Factors Shortly after leveling off at FL 350 we got a fuel imbalance light. Fuel in the right tank was decreasing way faster than the left tank. We monitored the situation for a few minutes to confirm this. I opened the crossfeed valve (with the FO concurring) and turned off number two fuel pumps as the imbalance was increasing very fast and I could see the control wheel compensating. We read the QRH for a fuel leak. Confirmed there was a leak. Fuel flows were equal. Appeared that right tank was still using more fuel than the left tank. Fuel used was equal. QRH directed us to shut down the engine. We decided not to do that. Main reason for that was that the FAs did not see any fuel leaks anywhere and in my mind I thought if I had misread the situation I did not want to shut down a perfectly good engine and make my problems worse. I didn't want to scare Passengers either. We contacted Dispatcher thru ACARS and then later by radio. We had already started to divert but coordinated it with Company as we were doing that. We landed without incident and did not declare an emergency, but ATC knew what our situation was. We had fire trucks follow us to gate. After sitting for a while and thinking about the situation I was wondering if I had left the cross feed open when I did my preflight. It would have caused a fuel imbalance. When we read the checklist and opened the crossfeed we may have closed it then thinking we had just opened it. We both looked at the switch when I did this but we may have seen what we wanted to see. So when we thought we had opened the crossfeed, and running both engines on the left tank, in reality we may have been running left engine on left tank with boost pumps and the right engine was suction feeding. So it looked like to us, as crossfeeding on left tank and the right tank was still losing fuel like crazy. We diverted right away. The only reason I don't think this is what happened is that I think we would have had a much larger imbalance with the crossfeed open for the entire climb. Our largest imbalance was 1500 pounds, and we actually started to get our imbalance back slightly after we started to crossfeed. Also when we parked the aircraft, we both saw me put the crossfeed to close after I shut down the right engine on taxi. I know we verified the switch movement but I personally did not watch the blue lights
activate to verify the valve movement. We also watched the switch being moved but maybe did not really confirm its position. Probably rushed the situation but we thought we had a really bad leak that was uncontrollable. We may have jumped to a conclusion too quickly. Could have probably called Maintenance inflight and gotten some guidance. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Narrative: 3 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis 3737 flight crew and Dispatcher reported a fuel imbalance at cruise and subsequent diversion.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 1000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Bonanza 35 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Takeoff Route In Use : Direct Component : 1 Aircraft Component : Engine Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Component : 2 Aircraft Component : Fuel System Aircraft Reference : X Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 3000 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 30 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 2000 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1461603 Human Factors : Situational Awareness
Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Ambiguous Narrative: 1 Aircraft lost power immediately after takeoff. Aircraft performed normally during the run- up prior to takeoff. Airplane had just finished a small repair for running rough. Landed in a recreational complex immediately adjacent to the airport. Normal glide to landing. No damage and no injury. Towed the aircraft back to the airport for further inspection. Found debris in the main fuel drain screen and the screen to the injector body. Learnings: while we did maintenance for running rough we never found a smoking gun to indicate the issue. Suspected a vapor lock due [to] the heat of the day. After the Engine cooled down and run-up was normal we assumed we had determined the cause. On takeoff from the grass runway which was very rough terrain I could not hear the popping of the engine due to the bumping of the airplane as it accelerated down the runway. As soon as the wheels were up it was apparent that the engine was running rough and I could not maintain altitude and elected to land in the recreational field next to the airport. Conclusions (what I learned from this event). Make sure that the reasons for any aircraft performance issues is thoroughly discovered. And not to underestimate the terrain used when taking off after a repair/maintenance. I'm convinced had I used the paved runway (slight cross wind) I would have heard the engine running rough and aborted the takeoff. The grass runway was the longer runway and aligned into the wind. Synopsis Beechcraft Bonanza pilot reported an off-field landing due to loss of power on takeoff caused by debris in the fuel system.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Relative Position. Distance. Nautical Miles : 10 Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 2000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : 10 Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Light Sport Aircraft Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Final Approach Route In Use : Direct Airspace.CIass D : ZZZ Component : 1 Aircraft Component : Engine Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Component : 2 Aircraft Component : Fuel Line, Fittings, & Connectors Aircraft Reference : X Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 1510
Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 230 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 190 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1461572 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Analyst Callback : Completed Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Maintenance Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue Detector. Person : Flight Crew Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : In-flight Result.General : Maintenance Action Result.FIight Crew : Returned To Departure Airport Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I departed ZZZ to do sightseeing and my passenger wanted to take photos. [Approximately 15 minutes after departure] the engine began to run rough. I decided to return to ZZZ where the aircraft is based. I entered class D airspace around 2,000 feet MSL originally planning on the left base runway XY. The tower noticed I was unusually high and they asked if I wanted [a different] runway, which I accepted and was cleared to land. I did not declare an emergency, however the tower deemed it was an emergency; crash fire rescue was activated. At approximately 300 feet AGL crossing the runway threshold the engine failed and the propeller came to a full stop. After landing I attempted to restart the aircraft, which it did. I taxied the aircraft back to the hangar without incident. No damage. The aircraft had been returned from maintenance where it underwent an annual inspection and a 5 year rubber change. Maintenance department is still investigating. Callback: 1 Reporter indicated that the left fuel tank supply line and overflow line were found to have been swapped during the recent maintenance work. The aircraft had been test flown after the annual, but had only been operated from the right fuel tank. The condition was reproduced on the ground. The lines were moved to the correct positions and the system has functioned normally since. Synopsis Light sport aircraft pilot reported a rough running engine progressed into an engine failure. The problem was traced to fuel lines that had been incorrectly installed during recent maintenance.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZZZ.ARTCC State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 23000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility : Thunderstorm Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Corporate Make Model Name : Light Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : GPS Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Climb Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Direct Airspace.CIass A : ZZZ Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Corporate Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.FIight Crew : Captain Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1459617 Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Workload Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Corporate Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Function.Flight Crew : First Officer
Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1459629 Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Track / Heading : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : FLC complied w / Automation / Advisory Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 I am filling out this form due to a possible pilot deviation call we received from ATC on our change of destination. We were on an IFR flight plan originating from home station. A line of storms stretching from the [across the coast], was preventing a departure clearance from clearing us IFR through normal routing to our destination, as all the gates were closed. We were told the only IFR option was at low altitude. To make this possible we contacted our flight follower through ARINC and proposed a flight plan to a mid-AtIantic airport using the escape route and also filed another flight plan. This was in hopes Of flying south to get around the storms to the west and finally proceeding to our final destination. We were under the impression that this was the only way to get out of the departure airport without waiting possibly 3-5 hours for the storms to pass. We were able to pick up the clearance south and flew the escape route and once we got to the point where there was a gap in the storms (further south) we requested a change of destination to a Midwest airport. Center then handed us off to approach who accommodated our request, after first being assured that we did indeed have a flight plan on file. Approach cleared us through to our intermediate fuel stop and gave us a climb to FL230. Passing approximately FL200, Approach informed us Center wouldn't be able to take us and gave us a right 90 degree turn. Approximately 30 degrees into the turn Approach told us that Center did take the handoff and turned us back left on course. We were eventually handed off to Center. We were given a new altitude of FL340 and were climbing from FL230-340 when we received a call from Center to copy down a number for possible pilot deviation. We were quite surprised by this call and were in communication with our company aircraft who had accomplished the same change of destination about 5-10 minutes ahead of us and had received the same possible deviation call from ATC. They headed on uneventfully to our destination and we made a fuel stop and then onto our final destination, where we
completed our flying for the day. Once on the ground, we called ATC on the number, and were told no need for further explanation, that they were in contact with another pilot on the aircraft ahead of us, who could explain the issue. We were told by our colleague in the other aircraft that there were no flight deviations or regulatory breaches but that we had a created an undue workload and upset the normal operations of Center on a busy day with convective weather complications. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis A corporate flight crew reported ATC would not issue an IFR clearance because weather had closed all desired IFR gateways. The crew elected to deviate and continue, their actions disrupted ATC operations.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 2000 Environment Flight Conditions : Mixed Weather Elements / Visibility : Rain Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 700 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : FBO Make Model Name : Duchess 76 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Training Nav In Use. Localizer/GIidesIope/ILS Flight Phase : Final Approach Route In Use : Vectors Airspace.CIass B : ZZZ Component : Runway XX Aircraft Component : Reciprocating Engine Assembly Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Failed Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : FBO Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Experience.Flight Crew. Total : 1626 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 131 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : O ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1459577
Human Factors : Situational Awareness Analyst Callback : Attempted Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly.Deviation - Track / Heading : All Types Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Result.Flight Crew : Inflight Shutdown Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 We were being vectored for the ILS. The left tank was showing low, right tank had considerably more fuel, we decided to cross feed for the left Engine from the right fuel tank. After being on the localizer approaching final Approach fix the left Engine quit which caused the plane to roll to the left initially we recovered the aircraft. Tower saw we were off the localizer and wanted us to go back to Approach, we said we were unable, they insisted. At that point we felt the best decision for the safety of the aircraft, taking into consideration warm day density altitude, being in a light twin with not a ton of power to do a Single Engine climb was to continue straight to the runway because we had ground contact, broke out of the clouds and could see the airport. Synopsis BE76 Safety Pilot reported experiencing an engine failure during an ILS approach.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : EMB ERJ 145 ER/LR Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 2850 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1459305 Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Workload Events Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate Result.FIight Crew : Became Reoriented Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1
We were operating the flight after a delay due to weather and crew placement. We had received an ATC reroute prior to pushback. An ACARS message was sent to Dispatch informing them of the reroute and we waited at the gate to confirm we had enough fuel for the new route. Dispatch sent us the new fuel numbers confirming we did not need additional fuel. Once we were in line for takeoff, we received an ACARS message from Dispatch saying we needed to return to the gate and get more fuel. They apparently never read the original message we sent giving them the new route. While taxiing back to the gate, we shut down engine 1 in line with company sops. Once we parked at the gate, the flight crew became distracted with other duties such as calling operations, monitoring jet bridge movement, communicating with the cabin crew and passengers, and coordinating with Dispatch on our new fuel load. Neither flight crew member called for the parking checklist. This caused the number 2 engine to never get shut down while parked at the gate. The engine was running throughout the entire fueling process which is against company sops. The flight crew did not become aware of the issue until we had pushed back from the gate and started engines. Once we became aware of the issue we both admitted to the failure Of not running the checklist and becoming too distracted. Flight crew became distracted when a non-standard event occurred. Had to return to the gate to load more fuel after Dispatcher became aware of ATC reroute. The flight crew failed to complete the parking checklist after returning to the gate. Distraction with other tasks and duties caused the checklist to not be completed. Don't let yourself become too distracted that you forget to follow normal procedures. If the Captain doesn't call for a checklist at the appropriate time, prompt him for it. When things happen outside of the operational norm, don't get dragged down into the weeds without following normal procedures. Always complete the appropriate checklists even when things go differently than normal. Synopsis EMB-145 First Officer reported the crew failed to shut down Number 2 engine at the gate while refueling because of distractions and workload.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B777 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Component Aircraft Component : Fuel System Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience.FIight Crew. Total : 11215 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 1797 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1459271 Human Factors : Situational Awareness : Troubleshooting Human Factors Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.General : Maintenance Action
Result.Flight Crew : Landed As Precaution Result.FIight Crew : Returned To Departure Airport Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Ambiguous Narrative: 1 Shortly after arriving at the aircraft a mechanic came to the cockpit and stated they needed to do some work because the fueler couldn't get the correct amounts in the tanks due to fuel shutoff valves closing. This isn't unheard of so I was not concerned. After stepping back to say hi to the flight attendants I saw the mechanics had opened the equipment access hatch in first class. This I have never seen before to work a fuel transfer issue, but again I wasn't concerned. Shortly afterwards the fuel issue was resolved and the fuel sheet was brought to the cockpit. At this point I noticed the fuel load of Left 63.1 Center 118.0 Right 63.1. I took note of it because it was exact (left and right) this is unusual but good, I thought to myself the mechanics did a perfect job! About 45 minutes later when preparing for the before push checklist I noticed the fuel was now 2000 lbs lower in the left tank and 2000 lbs higher in the center tank. Also after my before push flow the center right fuel pump should have load shed but this time it didn't. Right away I thought something in the fuel system is still set to transfer fuel or was left "connected" between the left main and the center tank. After having maintenance come back out to the aircraft they looked the plane over made some adjustments (I am not sure what exactly they did) the fuel was again balanced and the center right fuel pump now load shed like it should. At this point we believed the issue was corrected. We then taxied for takeoff. After takeoff when passing 10,000 an IRO (International Relief Officer) asked what was happening with the fuel. We brought the fuel synoptic up and shockingly the left tank was now 3000 lbs higher than it was at the gate. We decided the best course of action was to get up to altitude before an in-depth discussion. After getting close to cruise the Captain called Dispatch and [Maintenance] on the satellite phone and I was in charge of flying and talking to ATC The Captain, with input from the IROs, Dispatch, and [Maintenance] attempted to understand and remedy the situation. After quite a while it became apparent that none of the crew was comfortable taking the aircraft over the Pacific Ocean like it was. We elected to return to [departure airport] for further maintenance work. The crew was also not comfortable jettisoning fuel which would open more valves and further complicate what we considered an "unknown" fuel system. By now we had the system burning out of the center tank and decided to use delaying vectors altitude and landing gear to increase our burn to a weight we were comfortable with. After arriving at that weight we conducted the arrival and made an uneventful overweight landing.
Synopsis 3777 First Officer reported returning to departure airport after experiencing fuel system anomalies.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Local Time Of Day : 0001-0600 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZZ.Airport State Reference : FO Environment Flight Conditions : IMC Weather Elements / Visibility Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier : Thunderstorm Make Model Name : B747-800 Advanced Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Mission : Cargo / Freight Flight Phase : Cruise Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Check Pilot Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1458556 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : First Officer Qualification Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (AT P) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1458837 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Person : 3
Reference : 3 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1458555 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Track / Heading : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Returned To Clearance Result.FIight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Weather Narrative: 1 Upon reaching our destination airspace at approximately XA35, ATC asked us to hold 70 miles from ZZZ VOR due to large thunderstorms over the airport. Several other aircraft destined for [the] airport were also holding. ATC made it clear that no aircraft were being permitted to make an approach to the airport and would not provide any EFC times. After entering holding, I calculated a "bingo fuel" (minimum fuel at which I would no longer tolerate holding and would proceed to our designated alternate) of 20.5 metric tons. This "bingo fuel" was the sum of 13.3 tons of fuel to fly I hour and five minutes to Ahmedabad and additional 7.2 tons of fuel in reserve. This would allow us to fly to the alternate, make an approach, go missed approach--returning to the radar pattern--then fly one more instrument approach and safely land. As time passed while we held as directed, other aircraft expressed their concern to ATC regarding their limited fuel quantity. A couple of other aircraft began to divert to their designated alternates. At approximately XA45, I called approach two or three times to tell them we would have to divert to our alternate soon due to the lack of fuel onboard. The controller did not answer any of my calls. In my opinion, the controller had become overwhelmed with the number of aircraft requesting to divert to their alternates. At XA48 with 21.8 tons of fuel and with no indication that the weather would clear over the airport in a timely manner, I asked approach control to give us vectors to our alternate. Even after asking three or four times, the controller did not acknowledge any of my requests. At approximately XA50, I elected to proceed to the alternate. Even after the ATC controller did not reply to my calls.
Shortly after stating "fuel emergency" several times, I transmitted that we were leaving holding and proceeding to [alternate] airport by way of ZZZZZI fix at our present flight level. Even then, the ATC controller did not respond. At this point, we looked up other frequencies and attempted to contact air traffic control for assistance. At approximately XA57, we received a voice request over guard frequency (121.5) asking us to return to our previous controllers frequency. We did so and the controller asked if we would like a higher altitude to proceed to our alternate. I requested flight level 320 and we were given flight level 300. It seemed to me as if it was now a different controller on duty, as the voice was not the same as the original controller. At approximately XB13, the controller told us that airport was now open and accepting approaches and was asking if we wanted to return to land. I replied that this would be acceptable, providing we would not be holding prior to landing. With 16.7 tons of fuel remaining, we decided it would be safe to return to [original destination]. Although approach gave us extended vectors north of the airport, our approach and landing was uneventful. We landed with approximately 12.1 tons of fuel as opposed to our planned landing fuel of 21.9 tons, a difference of 9.8 tons. Our total flight time was 5 hours 52 minutes, as opposed to the scheduled flight time Of 4 hours 51 minutes, making our flight time an additional one hour and one minute more than scheduled. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Narrative: 3 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis 3747 flight crew reported being issued a hold without EFC time due to weather.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Relative Position.Angle.Radial : 05 Relative Position. Distance. Nautical Miles : Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : 10 Light : Daylight Ceiling : CLR Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Personal 5 Make Model Name : Skylane 182/RG Turbo Skylane/RG Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Descent Route In Use : Direct Airspace.CIass E : ZZZ Component Aircraft Component : Fuel Distribution System Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Improperly Operated Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Private Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 578 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 10 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 10 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1458298 Human Factors : Training / Qualification Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events
Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Diverted Result.Flight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Half way through the trip I switched the fuel selector from "both" tanks to the "right" tank as the left side burns off faster than the right. Later, setting up for my descent, I switched the fuel selector back to what I believed was "both", retarded the throttle and started my descent. Approximately half way through my descent I went to add power to level off a little, discovered the engine did not respond and I had no power. I trimmed the plane to 80 mph (IAS) for max glide and started to go through mental checklist-carb heat, fuel, mixture, gauges, prop, throttle, ignition. No response. I did this a number of times while checking airspeed and looking for possible landing sites in between. It became apparent I would not be able to make an airport so I started to look more earnestly for a landing location. There was a county road that was a possible option. The surrounding terrain was extremely rough. As I got closer to the ground I saw that there was no oncoming traffic on the road in the direction I would be landing and what little traffic was coming up the road in the direction of landing would be well behind me and no factor so I elected to land on the road. I landed and coasted the aircraft off the side of the road to make sure I was out of the way of any traffic. The problem arose because I had inadvertently switched the fuel selector from "right" tank to "off" instead of "both" before initiating descent. Because I throttled back for descent right after switching the selector I did not feel the engine eventually starve and everything felt normal until I went to add power. In retrospect I made the same error several times in a row that should have resolved the problem. Mentally when I moved my hand down each time to check the fuel selector switch in the restart procedure I did not physically touch it and confirm. Instead in the stress of the situation, I moved my hand toward it, looked and saw it in vertical position and mentally saw what I thought I should see because in my mind I had just switched the selector to "both" a few minutes prior. It wasn't until I was in the final moments of landing the airplane that I realized my error but was too close to touchdown to take my concentration off the landing and attempt to reposition the selector. Human Performance Considerations: After a 20 year hiatus from flying I recently purchased the 182 1 was piloting to get back into flying. I took approximately 10 hours of flight instruction/re-training in the plane prior to getting signed off and taking the plane out on my own. Though fuel management was discussed during the re-training process, there was never any need to switch tanks at anytime as the instruction took place relatively close to the airport. Though this experience will forever burn into my memory the necessity of visually and physically confirming the location of the fuel selector, I'm incorporating and reinforcing preventative actions to make sure this situation never occurs again. I) Though I took about an hour to sit in the plane and go through the instrumentation, radio/nav settings and mentally walk through my flight, I did not think about the process of changing tanks during flight and
mentally/physically walk myself through it. That will now be a mandatory part of my preflight process. 2) Also to help reinforce the positions of the fuel selector, I plan to put a florescent green dot on the point of the fuel selector and above "both" and florescent red dot below the "off" to make settings more visually obvious (if allowable). I will also make sure when I switch tanks or go through any procedure involving the fuel selector that I physically touch and visually confirm the position Of the switch as instructed. Synopsis Cessna 182 pilot reported landing on a country road due to inadvertently selecting the "off" position with the fuel selector valve.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility State Reference : US Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : A300 : ZZZ.ARTCC : Turbulence Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Descent Airspace.CIass A : ZZZ Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1458248 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Dispatch Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1458251 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Dispatch
Events Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result. Flight Crew : Landed As Precaution Result.Flight Crew : Diverted Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Weather Narrative: 1 Company Policy Human Factors Weather During descent into ZZZ, ATC directed us to hold for unforecast weather overhead the airfield. We slowed to green dot to conserve fuel. Scheduled on deck fuel was 11.3 and we were getting close to that limit without the hold so we sent message to Dispatch via ACARS for options and fuel numbers. No reply was received. Just prior to reaching holding, ATC informed us the field was now open and landing in the opposite direction from original flight plan which made fuel even more critical. During vectors to new arrival, we were given new holding instructions and advised the airport was not accepting traffic and was unsure of when it would be open again. At this point, we called up the nearest airports on the FMS and saw ZZZI was the closest. After checking the weather for ZZZI (reported as VMC) while in holding, we elected to proceed to the divert prior to completing one turn in holding. Landed in ZZZI with 7.2. Visual approach and landing to runway 29 was uneventful. During divert to ZZZI, 3 diversion reports were sent through ACARS and no reply from Dispatch was ever received. During initial descent into ZZZ, there was not enough time/fuel to contact Dispatch via Radio. Cause - Unforecast weather combined with minimum FOD planning left us with few options when faced with unexpected holding. Suggestions - 3000 extra pounds of gas would have allowed us to hold longer and given us more options. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis A300 flight crew reported diverting due to unforecast weather combined with inadequate fuel on board.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 10000 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : FBO 10 Make Model Name : Cessna 162 Skycatcher Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Training Flight Phase : Landing Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : FBO Make Model Name : PA-28 Cherokee/Archer/Dakota/PiIIan/Warrior Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Training Flight Phase : Landing Component Aircraft Component : Fuel System Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Improperly Operated Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : FBO Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Function.Flight Crew : Instructor
Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 765 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 110 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 50 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1457646 Confusion Human Factors : Human Factors : Time Pressure : Workload Human Factors Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Communication Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : Y Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : FBO Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification Flight Crew : Private ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1456206 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Time Pressure Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly.Conflict : Ground Conflict, Critical Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.HorizontaI : 5 Miss Distance.VerticaI : O When Detected : Taxi Result.FIight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.Flight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 On this day my student and I were working on takeoffs and landing. We were in the traffic pattern for about 30 minutes when one plane starting taxiing to the run-up area, a Cirrus
(SR22). Another airplane was taxiing from the east ramp to the hold-short line of runway XX, it was an experimental airplane. There was one airplane that took off when we were turning left downwind to left base runway XX, it was a low wing aircraft. When we turned final for runway XX the Cirrus was doing the run-up, the experimental was holding short of runway XX, and the other aircraft that departed runway XX was not insight. We were approaching runway XX and everything seems to be okay. We were on short final and my student started his flare, about 5-10 feet from the runway we realized there was another aircraft coming from the opposite direction of the runway. At that point we were already touching down so I took the controls as fast as I could and just moved the airplane to the right because I saw the other airplane moving to the left. Once we passed each other I said on the CTAF: "What was that about?" No response for about 30-40 seconds and then a guy said: "Sorry, we got an engine failure". I wasn't very sure what happened because the aircraft was taxiing like a normal airplane and the engine was running. There was no injuries or damage to any of the airplanes. I told my student that it was enough practice for today so we taxied to the ramp and parked the airplane. We talked to the FBO line guys about what happened and one them said that one of the guys in the airplane said they had an engine failure so I asked: "how is that possible if they were taxiing with the engine running" but the line guy didn't know the answer. No further action was taken. Narrative: 2 I was approaching my destination to land and the engine sputtered. It was determined that fuel starvation was taking place. Initiated approach to land immediately. Took corrective action by switching tanks. Advised CT AF traffic for straight in landing due to emergency. Due to the nature of the emergency selected wrong frequency and proceeded to land. After landing there was another aircraft about to takeoff and both aircraft veered to the right of each other. There was no physical contact or damage to the aircraft involved. Synopsis C162 instructor and PA28 pilot reported both aircraft landed on the runway in opposite directions at the same time. The aircraft both veered to the side to avoid a collision. The PA28 pilot reported the engine failed and he used the wrong CTAF frequency.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : EWR.Airport State Reference : NJ Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 6000 Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZNY Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Embraer Jet Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Cruise Flight Phase : Taxi Airspace.CIass E : ZNY Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1457490 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Training / Qualification Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly Deviation - Procedural : FAR Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Landed As Precaution Result.FIight Crew : Diverted Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance
Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Ambiguous Narrative: 1 Company Policy Human Factors Procedure Prior to pushback, as is normal procedure, the clearance for our flight was obtained from Clearance Delivery. Our initial clearance was to expect our filed altitude of FL300. During taxi out, Newark ground control asked us to contact clearance delivery for a new routing. We were on taxiway Bravo holding short of Golf with brakes set. The first officer contacted Clearance Delivery and I, the PIC, monitored as well as copied the new routing as did the first officer. There was no mention of any altitude changes for our new route of flight mentioned. Once the clearance was confirmed, the first officer and I worked together to verify the route and input into the FMS. The new route was checked for accuracy, time, distance and fuel. The new route appeared to slightly improve our time, distance and fuel performance upon arrival at destination as compared to the original routing. The first officer and I agreed on the new routing and advised ground control. Once we departed, we were cleared to level off at 6000 ft. After a few minutes time, we began to inquire with ATC about when we could expect higher. ATC advised us that 6000 ft would be our final altitude. We further inquired and were informed that we had accepted clearance for a "Sermon South" route and would not be given higher. They also informed us that our company had agreed to use "Sermon South" routes which is why we were assigned the clearance. The first officer nor I had ever heard of "Sermon South" routes and were perplexed by this. Newark Clearance Delivery had never made and mention of a "Sermon South" route nor the fact that we would be required to maintain 6000 ft for the majority of the cleared route. Prior to takeoff and up until we were notified of the "Sermon South" routes, both the first officer and I believed we would be cleared to our filed flight plan altitude of FL300 (as per the initial clearance) and had no indication from anyone that our final altitude would be limited to 6000 ft. I immediately began making fuel calculations and communicating with Dispatch about our situation. I also advised ATC of the fact that if we were limited to 6000 ft, we would not have enough fuel to legally make it to the destination and we would be diverting. ATC did attempt to make some concessions and eventually cleared us to 16000 feet, then to FL 200. Even with the higher altitudes, the calculations revealed that we had consumed too much fuel at the lower altitudes for us to safely proceed to destination. Dispatch and I agreed to divert the flight to refuel. Newark Clearance Delivery was under high pressure to re-route numerous aircraft and may have inadvertently omitted the fact that they were clearing us for a route at 6000 ft. It is imperative to advise the crew of a turbojet aircraft that they are being re-routed to a significantly lower altitude than originally cleared for as fuel consumption rates at 6000 ft are significantly different than at FL 300. Additionally, if those routed are to be used, there should be some sort of education granted to pilots who will be operating them prior to assigning the routes. Lastly, in the future, when I receive such a large re-route, I will also confer with dispatch prior to departure to ensure an incident like this is not repeated. Synopsis ERJ Captain reported receiving a reroute prior to departure from EWR which appeared shorter than the original route. Once airborne the crew learned of an altitude restriction that consumed additional fuel, resulting in a diversion.
Time / Day Date : 201705 Local Time Of Day : 0001-0600 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 100 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility : Haze / Smoke Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : 5 Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 2400 Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : PA-2S Pawnee Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Takeoff Route In Use : Visual Approach Component Aircraft Component : Fuel Line, Fittings, & Connectors Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : FBO Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Private Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 540 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 1.5 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 30 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1456951 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Training / Qualification Events
Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Inflight Shutdown Result.Flight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 The Piper Pawnee PA-25-235 was being used as a tow plane in glider operations. A Schweitzer 2-33 glider was in tow when the tow plane lost power approximately 100 feet off the ground. The glider was released and both the tow plane and glider landed on the far end of the runway with no damage. This particular PA-25-235 has been modified for towing operations with a hopper fuel tank. Upon stopping the plane and further investigation, I noted 85%+ fuel in the plane. When I opened the fuel tank cap, the fuel tank popped up/out approximately I". After further investigation, the fuel vent line was completely plugged and had caused a complete vacuum in the fuel system. I have no knowledge of a proper vent cover on this Pawnee and it has been flying for years from what I can tell with no vent tube cover. I hope by filing this report that other owners of PA-25-235 with modified hopper fuel tanks ensure that they are using fuel vent tube covers. This was the 5th flight of the day in this plane and this is a particularly difficult if not impossible item to pre-flight. Synopsis PA-25 pilot reported the aircraft lost power at 100 FT AGL when the fuel vent line became clogged.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 3200 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Texan T6/Harvard (Antique) Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Direct Airspace.CIass E : ZZZ Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial Experience.FIight Crew. Total : 1218 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 11 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 694 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1456611 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 The day started by topping off fuel. Capacity is 110 gallons. Took off and flew direct to ZZZ. Dropped off the owner of the plane at ZZZ and then flew from ZZZ toward ZZZZZ Intersection. Once clear of Class B airspace I flew direct to ZZZI. Approximately 30 minutes into the flight the engine quit and the fuel pressure light came on. I wobbled the emergency pump but had little success. A large corn field was ahead and left and I made a pattern to land there. This type of plane is landed gear up if off airport and no hard surface. I approached the field at 90 kts and made a couple S turns to lose altitude. Once closer I noticed the field sloped downhill. The adjacent field was chosen to land in and it was straight ahead after a low area with overgrowth and a dirt road. I flew the profile of the first field to maintain speed and aimed for the start of the second field. Once the plane hit it slid for 250 ft. There was no injuries and no fire. The remaining fuel was drained from the tanks and verified the tanks did not have enough fuel to keep the engine running. The total time from the departure airport to the field was 2.7 flight hrs. I normally use 30 GPH to plan. With that I should have had some reserve once at ZZZI. In hindsight I should have refueled at ZZZ. In the future I will limit time to 2 hrs between fueling. I also feel that there could have been a loose fuel cap causing venting of fuel or the aircraft was tilted during fueling causing a lower amount of fuel to go into tanks. Once the plane is repaired the owner will drain the tanks and check the capacity by filling. Synopsis T6 Texan pilot reported an off airport landing due to fuel starvation.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : PGD. Airport State Reference : FL Environment Flight Conditions : IMC Weather Elements / Visibility : Thunderstorm Weather Elements / Visibility : Turbulence Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : 7 Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 1700 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : RSW Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8737-800 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use : Vectors Airspace.Class D : PGD Airspace.CIass E : RSW Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person : Company Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Dispatch : Dispatcher Qualification.Dispatch : Dispatcher ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1454793 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Confusion Communication Breakdown. Partyl : Dispatch Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying
Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1457384 Events Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Diverted Result.Flight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Flight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Weather Narrative: 1 Due to partial system wide ACARS failure the ATC Coordinator notified me that my FLL flight was holding south of RSW due to line of thunderstorms between RSW and FLL, the destination of the flight. I sent the flight updated RSW weather. I asked the crew, through an ACARS message of "any chance of MIA?" RSW reported 1 1/4 VCTS PLUSRA, I asked the crew through an ACARS message to verify fuel on board to possibly change alternate to TPA. I was shortly notified by the captain that he was on the ground in PGD (Punta Gorda, FL). He arrived with 3000 lbs of fuel on board. Flight landed safely. Following the Dispatch Procedure Manual for Off-line Fueling and provided airport plates to crew for PGD. I built a flight release in accordance with FM for Departure from an Alternate Airport and emailed the Flight documents to the FBO handling the flight. All computer programs showed the flight was on the ground in RSW and I called station to verify. The station agent notified me flight was not there. The computers could not recognize PGD and the programs showed the flight in RSW. This led to confusion with in Operations which was rectified shortly after notification. Narrative: 2 A serious weather event was occurring in south Florida. ATC changed the arrival to FLL 3 times, eventually taking us out over the Bahamas. Numerous airplanes were in the line for both MIA and FLL. We were being vectored number 1 for the approach to FLL when a tornado was reported on the field at FLL. Diverted to RSW. Moderate convective activity was also in the RSW area. We were #2 for the approach when the aircraft in front of us executed a go around due to a 20 knot loss on short final due to windshear. ATC advised us that PDG airport was approximately 30 miles north of RSW. The reported wx was approximately 1700 overcast with 7 miles visibility. We diverted with approximately 6400 lbs on the fuel at that time. We were still deviating for convective activity between RSW and PDG. We were vectored for a downwind for Runway 22 and cleared to descend to 1500 ft to enable us to see the runway. We then executed a visual approach and landed with 3200 on fuel. This was a serious wx event in south Florida, resulting in numerous aircraft diverting for fuel issues. Numerous flight cancellations should have occurred to prevent this event.
Synopsis 3737 Captain and Dispatcher reported serious weather that resulted in a diversion to an offline airport.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 4500 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Dusk Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal 100 Make Model Name : Cessna Stationair/Turbo Stationair 6 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Direct Airspace.CIass E : ZZZ Component : 1 Aircraft Component : Engine Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Failed Component : 2 Aircraft Component : Fuel Selector Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Improperly Operated Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Experience.Flight Crew. Total : 3710
Experience. Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 135 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 165 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1454326 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Fatigue Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.Flight Crew : Overcame Equipment Problem Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Approximately 15 minutes after leveling off at a cruising altitude of 4,500 MSL, the engine began to surge as it lost all power. Attempted Restart - I immediately flipped on the fuel boost pump to the "High" position (i.e. pushed both red & yellow fuel pump switches). The engine increased RPM momentarily and surged a little and made a few popping noises - then went idle. The prop continued windmilling. Proceeded towards nearest airport - As the airplane began experiencing a partial loss of power, I pointed the airplane directly towards the [nearest] airport and began increasing pitch to climb and establish best glide airspeed. It soon became apparent that the airplane had lost all power and I was not able to make it to [the nearest airport]. Picked nearest suitable landing area - an open field. I switched to 121.5 and communicated "total engine failure, anybody copy?" An airline pilot came on the frequency and requested more [details]. I recognized that this conversation was quickly turning into a distraction as I tried to process his request, and ceased communications. Prepared cabin for forced landing - I turned around and told passengers "Put your hands underneath your knees and lean forward into your seatbelts". I reached for the fuel selector to turn it "OFF" and it was at this point that I discovered the true nature of the problem - the fuel selector was already in the "OFF" position. I was now passing through 2,000 MSL (about 1,000-1,500 AGL). I immediately switched to the Right Fuel tank, and, within moments, the engine came back to full power. Follow up communication on 121.5 - I reported on 121.5 that the engine was now back to life. The airline pilot (do not remember the call sign) came back with a request [from] Center about the nature of the problem. I told him the fuel selector had been switched off and that switching back had restored power. As I reflect on this incident there are 2 basic questions which need to be addressed. 1) How did the fuel selector get switched to "off"? I had reached for the fuel selector to select the opposite tank (which would have been the LEFT tank in this case) shortly after level off which is a standard procedure I follow. I believe I selected "OFF" without recognizing it. Pilot fatigue was one primary issue. The previous weeks leading up to this event had been extremely busy - I had very little time for rest. The flight was taking place at the end of a very long day. Throughout the flight, I was not as alert and did not respond as accurately to the situation as I normally train for - I overlooked the fuel selector during
my initial restart which is normally the first lever that I reach for. Getting distracted from managing the airplane was another significant factor. I became engaged in conversations which were gradually consuming more and more of my attention. 2) Why did I not immediately check the fuel selector during my initial restart? Resignation also crept in during this event. In my 3,700 hours of flying, I have not had one unexpected power loss in flight (other than occasional, mild carburetor ice issues in a Cessna 150). The moment it started to happen, I felt myself resigning to the fact that the engine had suffered a catastrophic failure and I proceeded to handle the situation in that frame of mind. Concluding remarks: What made ultimately made the difference in this event was altitude. The winds in this event favored a lower cruising altitude. However, as a rule, when I carry passengers I usually go as high as I comfortably can. It's how I was trained. One of my initial instructors would always say "if there's one thing you can't use, it's the altitude above you." That thought has always stuck with me, and I'm glad I didn't find myself flying low and "enjoying the view" when this happened. Synopsis C206 pilot reported he mistakenly positioned the fuel selector to "off' resulting in a loss of power in flight until he repositioned the selector.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZZZ.ARTCC State Reference : US Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8767-300 and 300 ER Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass A : ZZZ Component Aircraft Component : Fuel System Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Check Pilot Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1454161 Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1
Prior to Equal Time Point (ETP) we had about a 1,200 pound fuel imbalance, right side low, so we cross fed. Then shortly after that we noticed that the right side was getting low again. About 2 minutes prior to E TP we got the FMC message, FUEL QTY ERROR-PROG 2 [and] we noticed the difference between totalizer and calculated on the FMC was about 3,000 LBS which happened really fast. QRH has you go to the ENGINE FUEL LEAK checklist. Part of this checklist states, if you have a fuel imbalance of 1,000 pounds or more within a 30 minute time frame, you should assume that you have a leak and you should shut down that engine. We had 800 pounds in 30 minutes. I had [the First Officer] go back to see if he could see a leak, he said maybe a little mist, but couldn't tell if it was just a faint contrail, he said other side looked about the same. The imbalance stabilized at around 1,500 to 1,700 pounds and fuel at destination continued to show 16.3. Fuel remaining was decreasing also, but not real dramatically. At our last waypoint we were - 1.8. We started our descent into [destination], and while descending, the imbalance started to increase again, the difference was about 3,200 pounds at one point. Right after parking and shutting down the engines, the flight attendant called to tell us that there was a heavy fuel smell coming from the back. Maintenance came up to the cockpit and told us that there was a bunch of fuel coming out of our right engine. We went down to take a 100k and one Of the ramp guys came over to tell us that as we were taxiing in, he noticed a bunch of liquid coming from our right engine, but thought it just might be condensation. He said the fuel leak stopped once we shut the engine down. Fuel leak, right engine. Synopsis 3767-300 Captain reported a fuel imbalance and FMC message FUEL QTY ERROR-PROG 2 on a trans-oceanic flight. After parking at the gate, ramp personnel reported a significant fuel leak from the right engine.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZZZZ.ARTCC State Reference : FO Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 11000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B777 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 4 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Descent Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 10847 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 6718 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1453572 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Attendant Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue Detector. Person : Flight Attendant When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Flight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 Dispatched well to [the destination], planned landing fuel 1:25. [Destination] VFR, smooth rides, and no enroute weather forecast. Early unforecast deviation around weather, eight minute vector around military airspace (there is a vague NOTAM about this requiring checking a web site to see if it is applicable) and another weather deviation left us with about 1:15 in landing fuel. The fuel topic was discussed at each crew changeover and we were all well aware of the issue and not concerned. There had been an ongoing cabin light issue in which rows of reading and call lights were turning on randomly and staying on. We contacted dispatch and [maintenance] about this and their suggestions failed to help. We also had a random cockpit PA issue in which we sometimes had to reset the cockpit handset to make a PA announcement. About two thirds of the way through the flight, I made a seat belt PA and everything reset (PA and cabin and reading lights) and worked the rest of the flight. I waited until the descent (after my break and after the approach briefing and approach descent checklist) to sort everything out and try to make a maintenance write up. The write up took three pages of log entries and they all came back as incorrect (I had put too many characters in the log item field). Instead of rewriting them (due to time constraints), I called dispatch and had him patch me through to [maintenance] and I described the situation to him. All of this was complete by around 15,000 feet, but I had been out of the loop for a while. [ATC] had started our descent early and we received an insufficient fuel EICAS. We reset the warning fuel on the performance page to 1 hour of fuel (13,300 lbs). We received another early descent and the insufficient fuel EICAS came back. We did the ECL (Electronic Checklist) for that EICAS. At that point someone in front of us received a holding clearance. We investigated weather and discussed diverting. We were given a holding clearance without an EFC (Expected Further Clearance) time. We queried [ATC] for an EFC, they said the airport was changing runways and they did not have an EFC. I have always been taught that a minimum fuel advisory was not understood at international destinations and therefore did not declare minimum fuel. We immediately requested a diversion. We were given a hold for [the diversion airport] also. I might add that the PM (Pilot Monitoring) was focused on flying the aircraft and did an excellent job. The two non- flying copilots were very much in the loop and focused on pitching in where they could. I stated that we were unable holding. Rather than waiting until we were at a landing fuel of 30 minutes or less, I decided it was better to declare the [situation] early and continue towards a runway. After declaring controllers handled the situation very well. We were vectored to and landed uneventfully with one hour of fuel remaining, 13,300 pounds. The entire event from 15,000 feet down to landing was extremely busy. We changed the destination in the FMC twice, we sent two diversion messages to dispatch. We did not have time to discuss anything with dispatch after calling about the maintenance issues. I did follow up with a call to dispatch from the hotel to explain. All checklists were completed and we handled the situation without any deviations from SOP. I am quite proud of the way the crew responded to everything that was thrown at us. There are several items that were learned throughout this event. First and foremost, the system works. I was asked if I would increase fuel loads from this point on and my answer is no. From now on, my plan is to take a reasonable fuel load and realize that I can (in
spite of my previous understanding) declare minimum fuel when my landing fuel approaches one hour of fuel (several aircraft declared minimum fuel after we [advised ATC] and [ATC] understood and accommodated them), and as a last resort, I can [advise ATC] approaching 45 minutes of landing fuel and the path is cleared for us to make a safe, uneventful landing. I learned to postpone complex write ups and patches to [maintenance] until I am on the ground instead of in the descent. I knew to leave the ADIRU (Air Data Inertial Reference Unit) on when we need ACARS on the ground, but did not realize that the ACARS would have made life easier on the ground. Training center and most real life diversion scenarios include bad weather and therefore lots of hold fuel, many distant alternates and therefore lots of time to sit in a holding pattern and discuss options as a crew and with dispatch. I learned that this scenario, with VFR weather and minimum dispatched fuel can turn south very quickly. Actions need to be quick and decisive, CRM (Cockpit Resource Management) needs to be quick as well. We do not get as much (or any) training for a diversion scenario without lots of time to discuss options. This is something everyone might want to think through on the ground, if they have not already. Synopsis Boeing 777 Captain reported a fuel critical situation during descent due to unforeseen deviations.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Place Locale Reference.Airport : RJAA.Airport State Reference : FO Altitude.MSL.SingIe Value : 14000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : RJJJ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B777 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Descent Route In Use.STAR : ELGAR Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 13299 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 4991 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1453554 Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.FIight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure
Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Ambiguous Narrative: 1 Captain signed for flight plan with landing fuel of 18,100 lbs. No significant weather planned departure, enroute or destination. No significant maintenance issues. Flight was flown as planned with the exception of 2 deviations for unforcasted convective areas and a vector around military airspace in PAZA. Flight arrived at top of descent with a negative fuel score of 2.0. After normal early descent (ELGAR arrival via MELON) and vectoring off arrival, several flights ahead on arrival received holding instructions and were informed RJAA was changing runways. The flights were given expected clearance times which, if similar for our flight, would result in landing with emergency fuel. When our flight was given holding instructions we informed ATC we were unable to accept holding for fuel. After ATC again gave holding instructions we informed them we needed to divert for fuel. We were given a vector for ZZZZ and proceeded to plan for diversion. Dispatcher was notified but not consulted due to time constraints. ATC subsequently informed us that there would be holding for arrival into ZZZZ due to coordination. We requested clearance for landing at RJAA or ZZZZ whichever could be coordinated soonest. Uneventful approach and landing were made at RJAA. Landing fuel was 13,000 lbs. Synopsis 3777 First Officer reported multiple deviations and delays in flight resulted in the aircraft landing with emergency fuel.
Time / Day Date : 201705 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 12000 Environment Flight Conditions : Mixed Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 7000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8747-400 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Cargo / Freight Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Climb Route In Use : Vectors Airspace.Class E : ZZZ Component 10 Aircraft Component : Cargo Compartment Fire/Overheat Warning Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 10000 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 60 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 1800 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1452522 : Troubleshooting Human Factors Person : 2
Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 10000 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 80 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 3000 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1452526 Human Factors : Troubleshooting Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Smoke / Fire / Fumes / Odor Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Returned To Departure Airport Result.Flight Crew : Landed As Precaution Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 Climbing out of 12,000 to 23,000 1 (monitoring pilot) heard a sound like a CB popping. I looked up and noticed "MAIN CABIN SMOKE" light on the overhead panel, I informed the First Officer (fly pilot) and directed him to level off while I talked with ATC and called the dead heading pilot (aircraft qualified) up to the cockpit. I asked dead heading crew member to look in the main cargo area for smoke or fire he grabbed portable 02 bottle and went downstairs. While rider was checking, the First Officer (FO) turned back and I talked with ATC When jump seat pilot returned reporting no smoke or fire visible we (jump seat pilot and I) ran the "MAIN CARGO FIRE" checklist while FO handled communications with ATC. "MAIN CARGO LIGHT" extinguished before we depressurize aircraft so checklist was stopped. We as a crew discussed and agreed we had no visual indication of smoke or fire to dump fuel and return without [advising ATC of an] emergency. We advised ATC we would need to dump fuel and it would be 24 mins to dump 117k pounds. On completing dumping of fuel we had a fuel imbalance of 3000. We asked ATC for more vectors to run checklist. When all checklist complete, FO flew a coupled approach ILS 15 to a full stop. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis B747-400 flight crew reported experiencing a "MAIN CABIN SMOKE" light shortly after takeoff. Crew elected to return to departure airport.
Time / Day Date : 201705 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 5000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Bonanza 35 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Visual Approach Route In Use : Direct Airspace.CIass E : ZZZ Component Aircraft Component : Fuel Line, Fittings, & Connectors Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Failed Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Private Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 1800 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 1700 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1451548 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue
Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Loss Of Aircraft Control Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Diverted Result.FIight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 A BE35 Bonanza departed ZZZ at approximately XA:30 for a direct flight to ZZZI. At approximately XC: 15 1 diverted to ZZZ2 upon observation of a continual spray out of the cap of the right main fuel tank. I landed and had minor greasing of cap and subsequently departed to ZZZI (destination). At approximately XD:40 a sudden and violent turn and descent occurred. I immediately controlled the yoke to reestablish level flight, searched for handle to move gas flow from right to left main and [advised] ATC As control and checks were executed I decided to divert to ZZZ3. With the plane maintaining altitude and power I executed a non-eventful landing at ZZZ3 after 2 attempts. Once on the ground there was a leak of gas from under the engine. My major advice is to be aware that a situation can develop in a number Of seconds and keep a record of all fuel used and time remaining. Synopsis BE-35 pilot reported diverting due to a loss of fuel out of the right fuel cap, then diverting again later after losing power associated with a fuel leak.
Time / Day Date : 201705 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 1000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 10000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal : 50 Make Model Name : Light Sport Aircraft Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Final Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.CIass D : ZZZ Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Sport / Recreational Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 700 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 30 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 400 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1451200 Human Factors : Training / Qualification Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue Detector. Person : Flight Crew
When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Chart Or Publication Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I received a standard weather briefing. Good weather and favorable winds all the way. Plotted the course using Foreflight with its moving map display, on an iPad. Program calculated fuel usage from numbers put into the program. Considering weather and fuel burn rate and quantity, I should have had enough fuel for the first leg with at least 30 minutes of fuel remaining. There were a few spots where I flew into head winds, but other times I flew at indicated speed of 95 or more. I kept an eye on the fuel sight tubes and the right tank tends to draw faster. As I approached [destination] it became apparent that I wouldn't have that full 30 minutes worth left over. I closed my flight plan and flight following. When the right tank was empty it started drawing from the left tank fairly quickly. I contacted the Tower and got clearance to enter a left downwind for landing. About I mile from the airport, I was over housing, the engine started to cough and then quit. I knew immediately that I had run out of fuel. I stabilized the aircraft, found a field that I thought I could make it to, contacted the tower and told them I was out of fuel. They said I could land on any runway, but I was quickly losing altitude and airspeed. I was over houses at the time, there was a small green field off the right, and power lines right along the edge of the field. I just cleared the power lines, then had to bank sharply right and lose the last 50-75 feet of altitude immediately. Tower was still offering immediate landing, but I would have to cross a freeway. The field was my only hope. Had full flaps deployed. Got on the ground and found it to be very rough. Was able to stop safely about 10 ft from a ditch, with a fence and the freeway on the other side. Contacted the tower to let them know I was okay and plane was not damaged. They called 911 and a sheriff responded within 10 minutes. He asked how I was doing and if plane was damaged. Then he left to find a way into the field. While he was gone I contacted the plane manufacturer to find the best way to tow it. They strongly recommended not towing it because it would probably damage the landing gear. They recommended flying Off the field. The tower recommended against this, but there was no way to get it out of the field. Tower made sure I realized I would be fully responsible for the flight. The sheriff and tow truck drivers arrived and told me how rough the field was and that there were a few deep ruts that ran across the field. I put a minimum amount of fuel in to reduce weight. The wind had shifted, and I had to taxi carefully to the other end of the field. I had walked it and knew the takeoff route that I should follow. With full flaps I gave it full throttle, released the brakes, and began my roll. The grass was fairly tall, and there were big hummocks that made for a very rough ride and slow acceleration. Finally the plane lifted off just before I reached the ditch and I got over the fence. Leveled out about 10 ft. above the freeway to pick up speed, and then climbed out normally. Had the tower put glasses on the landing gear to make sure nothing was damaged on the rough takeoff roll. Made a normal landing then with emergency vehicles following. Refueled at that point and after hearing from both the tower and the sheriff,
who had talked with FAA, I continued my flight, with one more stop for fuel. Rechecked calculations for fuel burn that evening and found that the numbers I was using, which I had gotten from a website, were wrong. When I found more accurate numbers and recalculated. I found that I didn't really have enough gas to complete this first leg safely. I have since then changed those numbers and recalculated my fuel usage for the trip home. With one additional fuel stop, I can make it to each refueling stop with plenty of fuel left over at each stop. Synopsis LSA pilot reported an off-airport landing after a fuel miscalculation led to the tanks running dry.
Time / Day Date : 201705 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Relative Position. Distance. Nautical Miles : 2 Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 1500 Environment Weather Elements / Visibility : Rain Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 2000 RVR.Single Value : 2 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Cessna 150 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Final Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.CIass C : ZZZ Component : 1 Aircraft Component : Engine Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Improperly Operated Component : 2 Aircraft Component : Fuel Quantity-Pressure Indication Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Component : 3 Aircraft Component : Fuel Aircraft Reference : X Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck
Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Private Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 80 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 65 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 65 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1450668 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 On short final after a 3.4 hour cross-country flight the engine quit. [ATC was advised] and pilot safely operated an engine failure landing on runway, vacating the runway as well. Engine failure was due to faulty fuel gauge indicating aircraft had adequate fuel present when fuel starvation occurred. Synopsis CISO pilot reported a loss of engine power on short final due to fuel exhaustion that resulted in a dead-stick landing.
Time / Day Date : 201705 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 8000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 30000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal 10 Make Model Name : Cessna 310/T310C Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Personal Nav In Use : GPS Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass E : ZZZ Component Aircraft Component : Electrical Power Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Failed Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 3000 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 15 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 100 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1450636 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Time Pressure
Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown. Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Diverted Result.FIight Crew : Overcame Equipment Problem Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 In flight, total electrical failure in VMC on IFR flight plan. First indication was Center saying they couldn't see my transponder, anymore. When my headset started doing static and GPS flickered, I advised Center I might have pending total electrical failure. It failed shortly thereafter. Going to standby voltage regulator got my radio back, but not the screen, and the radio came up in Guard and an airline flight was trying to relay for me before I lost that a minute later, too. I then lost all cockpit avionics including GPS, moving map, radios, etc. All gages froze in last position and I was forced to hand crank the landing gear down and land no-flap (non-standard) at the nearest field as I was just about to switch from near empty aux tanks to the mains and was not certain if an electrical relay was needed, so I wondered if I was about to lose the engines, too, with no suitable field to do a forced landing. The gear held upon landing. A mechanic is investigating the voltage regulators and alternators. The batteries were brand new. The ammeter in the older C-310 does not give really accurate info other than flow trends. A voltmeter would be preferred. More frequent inflight checks of electrical system advised, especially IFR. It turns out the fuel valves are mechanical, so I had more fuel (and could have had less stress), but airmanship still dictated landing at the nearest field with total electrical loss. Bottom line, I'm glad I did not overfly a good piece of concrete to find a better one. A handheld transceiver would have been nice, but I might not have had time to use it potentially violating the aviate-navigate-communicate priorities. Backup navigation like iPad very helpful in situations like this. Synopsis C310 pilot reported a complete electrical system failure in visual conditions that resulted in a diversion to a nearby airport.
Time / Day Date : 201704 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 10000 Environment Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B737 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Climb Airspace.CIass E : ZZZ Component Aircraft Component : MCP Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Failed Person Reference : I Location Of Person : Company Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Dispatch : Dispatcher Qualification.Dispatch : Dispatcher ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1450417 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Returned To Departure Airport Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 Aircraft Human Factors Flight departed from IND at XA:59, at approximately XB:05, I received a call from the Departure station personnel saying that the flight was requesting to talk to me on ZZZ operations frequency. I pulled up the station radio and while doing that I zoomed in on the ZZZ area on my map and the flight had leveled off at 10,000 feet and appeared to be circling the area. I made contact with the flight and the captain stated right after departure they had a Mode Control Panel failure. They had lost the autopilot and were flying visually on vectors only. I advised the captain to return to ZZZ and provided the time and my initials to show an air return. After I got off the radio, I sent a request to the aircraft to obtain fuel and weight information from FMC which indicated that fuel on board was 8,500 lbs. I thought that was low but did not investigate further due to my rush to calculate numbers. I received the report back and ran the numbers. I showed a burn from his present position back to ZZZ as 600 lbs with a landing weight of 122,800 lbs. A couple of minutes later, I realized I sent the request to the wrong aircraft which had been a different model of the 737 also flying from ZZZ. After realizing this error, I re-ran the numbers with the correct information and put a corrected amendment on the release. The fuel burn remained the same at 600 lbs, with 16,600 lbs fuel on board, and estimated landing weight of 118,600 lbs. The reason for this error is because I felt rushed to calculate proper numbers prior to the aircraft landing. Since it was so close to the airport, I felt like I didn't have much time and had to accomplish the task prior to the aircraft landing even though I had told the captain to show an air return at XB:IO with my initials. After landing, captain called me and said that the MCP failure had occurred at approximately 100 feet AGL, right after they had retracted the gear. He stated in his rush to prepare for landing, he and the FO forgot to declare an emergency with ATC. He also stated that ATC never asked about emergency declaration either. I need to slow down and not try to rush when accomplishing my work. I should verify the information I am using is correct. Even though in this case, an air return was appropriate, it might have been possible to continue to the planned destination. Next time, I could ask the captain how he felt about continuing. Synopsis 3737 Dispatcher reported a flight had a MCP failure after takeoff and advised the Captain to return to the departure airport.
