ASRS Database Report Set Commuter and GA Icing Incidents Report Set Description. ...........................A sampling of aircraft icing encounter reports from GA and Commuter flight crews. Update Number.. .....32.0 Date of Update .................................... .December 28, 2017 Number of Records in Report Set............... Number ofNew Records in Report Set ...............9 Type of Records in Report Set. ....For each update, new records received at ASRS will displace a like number of the oldest records in the Report Set, with the objective of providing the fifty most recent relevant ASRS Database records. Records within this Report Set have been screened to assure their relevance to the topic.
National Aeronautics and Space Administration Ames Research Center Moffett Field, CA 94035-1000 TH: 262-7 MEMORANDUM FOR: Recipients of Aviation Safety Reporting System Data SUBJECT: Data Derived from ASRS Reports The attached material is furnished pursuant to a request for data from the NASA Aviation Safety Reporting System (ASRS). Recipients of this material are reminded when evaluating these data of the following points. ASRS reports are submitted voluntarily. The existence in the ASRS database of reports concerning a specific topic cannot, therefore, be used to infer the prevalence of that problem within the National Airspace System. Information contained in reports submitted to ASRS may be amplified by further contact with the individual who submitted them, but the information provided by the reporter is not investigated further. Such information represents the perspective of the specific individual who is describing their experience and perception of a safety related event. After preliminary processing, all ASRS reports are de-identified and the identity of the individual who submitted the report is permanently eliminated. All ASRS report processing systems are designed to protect identifying information submitted by reporters; including names, company affiliations, and specific times of incident occurrence. After a report has been de-identified, any verification of information submitted to ASRS would be limited. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration and its ASRS current contractor, Booz Allen Hamilton, specifically disclaim any responsibility for any interpretation which may be made by others of any material or data furnished by NASA in response to queries of the ASRS database and related materials. Linda J. Connell, Director NASA Aviation Safety Reporting System
CAVEAT REGARDING USE OF ASRS DATA Certain caveats apply to the use of ASRS data. All ASRS reports are voluntarily submitted, and thus cannot be considered a measured random sample of the full population of like events. For example, we receive several thousand altitude deviation reports each year. This number may comprise over half of all the altitude deviations that occur, or it may be just a small fraction of total occurrences. Moreover, not all pilots, controllers, mechanics, flight attendants, dispatchers or other participants in the aviation system are equally aware of the ASRS or may be equally willing to report. Thus, the data can reflect reporting biases. These biases, which are not fully known or measurable, may influence ASRS information. A safety problem such as near midair collisions (NMACs) may appear to be more highly concentrated in area "A" than area "B" simply because the airmen who operate in area "A" are more aware of the ASRS program and more inclined to report should an NMAC occur. Any type of subjective, voluntary reporting will have these limitations related to quantitative statistical analysis. One thing that can be Imown from ASRS data is that the number of reports received concerning specific event types represents the lower measure of the true number of such events that are occurring. For example, if ASRS receives 881 reports of track deviations in 2010 (this number is purely hypothetical), then it can be known with some certainty that at least 881 such events have occurred in 2010. With these statistical limitations m mind, we believe that the real power of ASRS data is the qualitative information contained in report narratives. The pilots, controllers, and others who report tell us about aviation safety incidents and situations in detail — explaining what happened, and more importantly, why it happened. Using report narratives effectively requires an extra measure of study, but the knowledge derived is well worth the added effort.
Report Synopses
ACN:1475141 (lof50) Synopsis CISO instructor reported engine roughness and loss of power after demonstrating a slip at 3,000 feet with a recovery at about 100 feet AGL with a climb to pattern altitude and a successful landing. Instructor reported probable carb icing. ACN: 1473537 (20f50) Synopsis Aeronca Pilot reported landing in an open field due to a loss of engine power. ACN:1464572 (30f50) Synopsis ZAN Center Controller reported two aircraft that were VFR needed help due to weather and icing, both aircraft were helped and landed safely. ACN:1463947 (40f50) Synopsis C152 pilot reported a loss of engine power that resulted in a return to the departure airport. The pilot suspected carburetor icing. ACN: 1460998 (50f50) Synopsis A Center Controller reported attempting to climb an aircraft entering higher terrain, but lost radio contact with the aircraft. ACN•. 1449264 (60f50) Synopsis C172 flight instructor reported a loss of engine power during a go-around from a simulated engine failure maneuver. After diverting, Maintenance concluded that a fouled spark plug was the likely cause. ACN: 1444821 (70f50) Synopsis Lancair IV pilot reported erroneous airspeed at FL270 due to pitot icing led the G3X autopilot to attempt to maintain airspeed by pitching down. ACN•. 1440882 (80f50) Synopsis
ZJX Controller reported an airborne conflict occurred when a pilot descended for weather even though he had been advised of opposite direction traffic below it. ACN: 1438874 (90f50) Synopsis CE-750 Captain reported regretting his decision to takeoff and complete the flight after receiving a fuel filter bypass light just before takeoff. ACN: 1435492 (100f50) Synopsis A Center Controller was not familiar with the lowest altitudes he could approve for an aircraft experiencing icing and allowed the aircraft to fly below their Minimum Vectoring Altitude. ACN: 1435424 (110f50) Synopsis PC-12 flight crew reported returning to departure airport after experiencing multiple electrical anomalies. ACN: 1434353 (120f50) Synopsis Captain of a Non Routine Flight Operation reported his thoughts on maintenance procedures for compliance with a maintenance ferry flight for an aircraft with a flap issue. ACN: 1432830 (130f50) Synopsis Air taxi Captain reported departing IAD during an unexpectedly late snow and ice event which resulted in damage to both engines discovered at their destination. ACN•. 1428647 (140f50) Synopsis PA-34 pilot reported poor braking action on landing and ran off the end of the runway. ACN: 1427648 (150f50) Synopsis PC-12 Captain reported that they connected the autopilot during climb and the aircraft pitched over and went into an uncommanded descent. ACN: 1427427 (160f50)
Synopsis Pilot reported while on an IFR flight plan he declined to descend into a cloud layer below due to icing concerns. ACN: 1426772 (170f50) Synopsis SR22 pilot reported a rough running engine at 15,000 feet and elected to divert to a suitable airport. During descent it was suspected that the left magneto had failed. ACN: 1426248 (180f50) Synopsis A Corporate aircraft crew reported the FMC did not execute a hold correctly but the crew allowed the aircraft to fly out of protected holding airspace and beyond TRACON radar before ATC intervened. ACN: 1425114 (190f50) Synopsis BTV T RACON Controller reported that an aircraft being vectored at the MVA was not able to maintain altitude due to icing. ACN: 1425113 Synopsis ZBW Controllers reported that an aircraft was descended below the Minimum IFR Altitude in error to get it below clouds to see the airport. ACN: 1425068 (21 of50) Synopsis S56 Tracon Controller reported vectoring an aircraft encountering icing and unable to maintain altitude and airspeed into lower terrain and out of the conditions. ACN: 1424776 Synopsis A Beechcraft Staggerwing pilot reported losing engine power around 700 feet and landing straight ahead with his gear up. ACN: 1424209 (230f50) Synopsis A PC-12 First Officer reported that they overshot an altitude crossing clearance during descent. Autopilot failure and increased workload were mentioned as key contributors.
ACN:1423490 (240f50) Synopsis PVD Tower Controller and the flight crew involved reported the crew was approved to use a closed taxiway that was not listed as closed on the AT IS. ACN: 1423396 (250f50) Synopsis LR40 Captain reported "Rudder Boost INOP" light illuminated followed by pitch trim and IAS faults, as well as unreliable airspeed indications. ACN: 1422888 (260f50) Synopsis SR22 pilot reported diverting to an alternate when he began picking up ice and could not climb out of it because his propeller de-ice system failed. ACN: 1422283 (270f50) Synopsis PC-12 flight crew reported during climb they encountered ice when an amber caption denoting a failure of the deice system came on. ACN: 1421137 (280f50) Synopsis Helicopter pilot reported encountering icing conditions and landed at the nearest airport. ACN: 1420704 Synopsis SR20 pilot reported departing with the assumption weather would remain the same as the arrival, but ice accumulated unexpectedly during climb. ACN: 1419839 (300f50) Synopsis Piper 33 pilot reported diverting to an alternate airport after his engine began running rough, which was later traced to carburetor ice. ACN: 1419587 (31 Synopsis AS350 pilots reported landing in an open field when a VFR flight encountered IMC. After the snow shower had passed, the flight continued to their destination.
ACN:1418186 (32 of50) Synopsis C550 pilots reported incorrectly setting their altitude during a descent to RNO resulting in overshooting their assigned altitude. ACN: 1417942 (330f50) Synopsis ZOA Controller reported observing another Controller work an aircraft in downdrafts over mountains, but did not handle the situation according to standards. ACN:1417678 (340f50) Synopsis PA28 pilots reported experiencing carburetor icing at 10,000 feet. Their engine began to lose power, so they applied carb heat and descended to 6,000 feet. During the descent they regained full power and continued. ACN:1417583 (350f50) Synopsis A pilot conducting practice approaches to FDY Runway 36 in IMC at 2,300 FT, reported being issued a low altitude alert even though the GPS and glideslope appeared normal. The pilot executed a precautionary go-around, but later could find no cause for the alert. ACN: 1416984 (360f50) Synopsis Cessna twin engine aircraft pilot reported accumulating significant ice during flight with a great deal present after landing. ACN:1416600 (370f50) Synopsis EMB-145 Captain reported rejecting the takeoff after detecting an unusual smell followed by smoke in the flight deck. ACN:1414100 (38 of50) Synopsis PA31 pilot reported having difficulty maintaining altitude and airspeed in icing conditions. ACN•. 1412187 (390f50) Synopsis
SR22 pilot reported he returned to the departure airport after encountering icing conditions in the initial climb. ACN: 1412166 (400f50) Synopsis MU2B-60 pilot reported that an improperly reset air conditioning circuit breaker caused smoke to enter the cabin. ACN: 1411504 (41 Synopsis SR20 pilot reported that ATC did not let him use the MOCA altitude that was published on his route. Pilot wanted to be lower to get out of possible icing conditions. ACN: 1411249 (420f50) Synopsis C172 pilot reported an enroute divert after losing his engine. He missed the runway then landed short of a taxiway. ACN•. 1410557 (43 of50) Synopsis Piper Cherokee Arrow pilot reported icing conditions, diversion and experienced right main and nose gear collapse on rollout on snow covered runway. ACN: 1410442 (440f50) Synopsis Cessna 402C Captain reported returning to the departure airport after experiencing significant ice accumulation on approach to their destination. ACN: 1410169 (450f50) Synopsis CL65 Captain reported diverting to an alternate after the outer pane of his direct view windshield shattered. ACN: 1410166 (460f50) Synopsis Carbon Cub Pilot reported encountering icing conditions that restricted his visibility during approach and landing. ACN: 1410129 (470f50)
Synopsis C56X Captain reported overshooting his cleared altitude during descent into SLC when the altimeter was not set to local descending out of FL180. Numerous arrival changes contributed to the deviation. ACN•. 1409504 (48 of50) Synopsis GA pilot reported poor handling from ATC in the vicinity of UBG VOR on approach to MMV in IMC and icing conditions. ACN•. 1408885 (490f50) Synopsis Business jet Captain reported operating at TRK with inaccurate and limited airport condition reports during airport surface icing conditions. ACN: 1407672 (500f50) Synopsis Piper Archer pilot reported loss of engine throttle control on final approach. He shut the engine down in flight with full flaps, landed long, but apparently stopped the aircraft on the runway undamaged.
Report Narratives
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.SingIe Value : 3000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : 10 Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : FBO Make Model Name : Cessna 150 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Training Flight Phase : Descent Route In Use : None Airspace.Class G : ZZZ Component Aircraft Component : Carburetor Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : FBO Function.Flight Crew : Instructor Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 477 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 72 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 12 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1475141
Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Overcame Equipment Problem Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 After modeling a slip for my student with the airplane in its proper configuration, we experienced engine roughness at 3,000 feet MSL. We were on a 4 mile 45 entry for the downwind for runway 18. I established best glide, called our position, situation and intentions to the two aircraft in the area (which was to proceed inbound for a short approach landing due to engine roughness) then began to troubleshoot. I confirmed that the carb heat was full on, mixture full rich, fuel tanks on both with both being nearly full and fuel gauges checked normal. When we departed, both tanks were full at 26 gallons total and our flight according to the hobbs was 1.1. The mags also checked okay. Despite full throttle, we were in a steady descent with minimal engine power and unable to climb. Approximately I mile east of our downwind entry, it was evident we would not make the runway, and with housing between us, I opted to remain to the east, and aim for a field east of the housing. I continued my descent and prepared for a forced landing, while continuing to attempt to regain power. The two aircraft that were in the pattern had visual on our position. At approximately 100 feet AGL, I attempted the throttle one last time. The engine regained full power, was smooth, and I was able to establish a climb. I continued my climb and was able to establish an altitude to safely proceed over the housing which would allow me the option, should it occur again, to glide to either side of the development, at about 800 feet AGL. I was able to enter a short base and land without incident. The engine remained normal. Synopsis CISO instructor reported engine roughness and loss of power after demonstrating a slip at 3,000 feet with a recovery at about 100 feet AGL with a climb to pattern altitude and a successful landing. Instructor reported probable carb icing.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 3000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility : Haze / Smoke Weather Elements / Visibility : Rain Weather Elements / Visibility.VisibiIity : 7 Light : Daylight Ceiling.Single Value : 12000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Aeronca Champion Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Training Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.Class E : ZZZ Component Aircraft Component : Powerplant Fuel System Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial Qualification. Flight Crew : Flight Instructor ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1473537 Human Factors : Troubleshooting Human Factors : Situational Awareness Analyst Callback : Completed
Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Diverted Result. Flight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Result.FIight Crew : Landed As Precaution Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 On the way to ZZZ airport to get fuel the engine started to stutter. I immediately pulled carb heat, verified mixture full rich, and fuel selector on, fuel gauge showing to have fuel, oil pressure and temperature both in the green. I continually pumped the throttle, as that seemed to be the only thing to keep the engine running partially. I looked for the private grass strips that I know of in the area, I was too far and too low to make it to them so I continued toward the best field options I could see when I remembered a friend of my boss had a big field he said we could land at just north of ZZZ. I then located the field and proceeded to circle the field while performing my final check list. I secured the engine and preformed a textbook 3 point soft field landing. I called my boss and he promptly arrived with an aircraft mechanic to inspect the airplane. They found absolutely no evidence of a problem so they started the airplane and my boss flew it back to the airport where he could have it checked tested and fixed. NO one was injured, no damage to persons or property occurred, and the airplane was in perfect flying condition. The airplane is now grounded until the issue can be found, however, my boss could not duplicate the issue and the engine ran perfectly smooth on the way back to the airport. The only thing they could come up with to this point is carb ice or vapor lock. Those are just guesses seeing how the issue cannot be duplicated. Also, I used carb heat and it only seemed to escalate the issue, progressively losing power and never restoring fuel flow. When pumping the throttle the engine would start back up for about a second per pump. This continued for about 2 minutes before it stopped healing and the engine stopped completely. Callback: 1 The reporter stated that the field where he made the emergency landing was a field that they used for practicing soft field landing. He added that maintenance has replaced the fuel line precautionary and ensured that the carb heat was working properly. They were unable to determine the actual cause of the engine shutting down, but suspect icing was the probable cause since the aircraft has been operating normally since the incident. Synopsis Aeronca Pilot reported landing in an open field due to a loss of engine power.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZAN.ARTCC State Reference : AK Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 11500 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZAN Make Model Name : Amateur/Home Built/Experimental Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass E : ZAN Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory Center : ZAN Make Model Name : Amateur/Home Built/ExperimentaI Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass E : ZAN Person Reference : I Location Of Person.FaciIity : ZAN.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Enroute Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Developmental ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1464572 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : VFR In IMC Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Weather Narrative: 1 Human Factors Weather I was training on the R-Side on Sectors 04-15-16, and FAI Approach called my D-side concerning a VFR aircraft, Aircraft Y, having trouble maintaining VFR. The aircraft was at 15,500 feet headed northeast bound from FAI. We immediately started researching weather through the Flight Data Printer (FDP), weather cameras, and gathering PIREPs from other aircraft. We decided that the airports west of FAI were the best options and sent him in that direction. One of my biggest concerns for this pilot was hypoxia. He didn't have oxygen on board the aircraft. Shortly thereafter Aircraft X called from the same area at 11,500 feet having the same issue only he was in IMC, and was unable to climb higher. We sent him in the same direction and he started picking up icing. He then began having trouble maintaining altitude, but he was well above the terrain. For this reason we [gave priority handling to] the aircraft. We continued gathering PIREPs and working them far enough east that they were able to find clear air. Both aircraft were eventually handed off to FAI approach and they were able to land safely. Synopsis ZAN Center Controller reported two aircraft that were VFR needed help due to weather and Icing, both aircraft were helped and landed safely.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 5500 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Cessna 152 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Direct Airspace.Class E : ZZZ Component Aircraft Component : Engine Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification Flight Crew : Private Experience.Flight Crew. Total : 122 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 122 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1463947 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight
Result.Flight Crew : Overcame Equipment Problem Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.Flight Crew : Returned To Departure Airport Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Ambiguous Narrative: 1 As the pilot in command of the aircraft, I had done all the necessary preflight actions. The route of flight was [along the coastline] at 5500 feet. As we were cruising down the coastline, I remember the engine ran a little rough, and I turned on the carburetor heat. We flew for approximately 5 minutes before we started losing engine power. It looked like we were going to lose the engine power completely to me. I turned inland and went through the checklist. The engine still seemed as though it was going to turn off completely. I was gliding towards ZZZI airport. With the engine still giving slight power pulses, I remember going through the checklist at least 3 times. It was at about 3500 feet that the engine started giving me the power I needed. I kept the aircraft climbing to 6500 feet. Moments later the engine seemed to run smooth again, and so I decided to take the airplane back to ZZZ, [the departure airport]. I landed the aircraft, and I remember the controller asking me if I needed any assistance of some sort. I did not see the need. I taxied the aircraft back to the flying club, and parked it. I then spoke to the dispatcher and the mechanics regarding what had happened and that I suspected it to be carburetor Icing. Synopsis C152 pilot reported a loss of engine power that resulted in a return to the departure airport. The pilot suspected carburetor icing.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 0001-0600 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZLC.ARTCC State Reference : UT Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 11000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZLC Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : SR22 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Direct Airspace.Class E : ZLC Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Facility : ZLC.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Enroute Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1460998 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 1780 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 34
Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 1467 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1462155 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Other / Unknown Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : ATC Equipment / Nav Facility / Buildings Primary Problem : ATC Equipment / Nav Facility / Buildings Narrative: 1 Aircraft X checked on and I informed him that I would need to climb him to 12,000 in the BYI area due to the MEA. He acknowledged. When aircraft X was a few minutes away from BY I, I issued a climb to 12,000. No response. I tried again to no avail. I then proceeded to have two different aircraft on a different frequency attempt to reach aircraft X to issue the climb. The other frequency is to the west side of BOI instead of the one to the East. I thought it was possible that aircraft X was put on the west frequency. Neither aircraft were able to reach aircraft X. I continued to try and reach aircraft X on the frequency that he should have been on and then a VFR aircraft that was in the same vicinity, again to no avail. Big Sky Approach also attempted and got no response. The VFR aircraft in the same vicinity as aircraft X then gave it an attempt using Big Sky Approach's frequency and still nothing. By now, aircraft X was past BYI where the MEA jumps up to 11,400 and now clipping an MIA area of 11,300. I notified the CIC and he in turn let the next sector know. At this point, the next sector has the handoff w/ NORDO in the fourth line. Then, out of the blue aircraft X checked on and stated that a "fellow on a different radio" called him. I issued the climb to 12,000 since there was another MIA ahead above 11,000 (11,400). It appeared that he was already climbing, as the mode C showed 11,400 or 11,500 right after I issued the climb. I then coordinated with the sector that had radar control of the aircraft. I would say I should have been more aware of what frequency the aircraft was on upon check on. And I could have always issued the climb earlier and possibly been able to reach the aircraft. Narrative: 2 I was flying direct at 11,000 feet and had been transferred to Center. I had checked in with them, but was having problems hearing them since there was lots of static in the air. I assumed it was due to the cloud build up in the area. They did mention that I would need to climb to 12,000 feet further ahead. I told them I would wait to hear from them when they wanted me to climb. Further along the flight I received a call from another airplane that Center wanted me to climb to 12,000 feet and contact them.
I started my climb and contacted Center. They said to climb to 12,000 feet. I acknowledged that I was climbing to 12,000 feet. When I landed the Tower said to call Center for a possible pilot deviation. I called the number and talked to a man who said he was Operations Manager. He said I had went through MEA (Minimum Enroute Altitude) of 11,000 feet to 12,000 feet. I told him I received the call from the other plane who said SLC wanted me to climb to 12,000 feet contact them which I did while I was climbing. He said it looked like I did everything I could and after the air to air I called them right away and was already climbing. He did not see it as a pilot deviation, but will pass it along. He said if someone wants to call me he has my cell number. He was puzzled why I could not hear them on their frequency. I told him as soon as I heard the air to air I called and was already in the climb. I told him there was quite a lot of static today that I thought might have something to do with the cloud buildup in the area. Synopsis A Center Controller reported attempting to climb an aircraft entering higher terrain, but lost radio contact with the aircraft.
Time / Day Date : 201705 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 550 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : FBO Make Model Name : Skyhawk 172/Cutlass 172 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Training Flight Phase : Initial Climb Airspace.CIass G : ZZZ Component : 1 Aircraft Component : Engine Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Component : 2 Aircraft Component : Spark Plug Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : FBO Function.FIight Crew : Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial Qualification.FIight Crew : Flight Instructor ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1449264 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Detector. Person : Flight Crew
When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.FIight Crew : Diverted Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 I initiated an engine failure on my student at 4500 feet and had him steep spiral down. Upon reaching 1500 feet AGL he recovered from four rotations and began to configure the aircraft for the simulated engine failure power off landing. Upon reaching 550 feet AGL he initiated a go around adding full power immediately. On climb out a very strong engine vibration began and we lost much of our available power. I turned carb heat back on in the event it was icing but it didn't correct the engine vibration. I then adjusted mixture leaning it out and pulled power to idle then firewalled it at which point power slowly came back. I then diverted to the nearest airport with services and informed operations and had maintenance inspect the aircraft. It was determined that a fouled plug was most likely the cause and after a run up the aircraft was flown back to [home airport]. No further incident occu rred. Synopsis C172 flight instructor reported a loss of engine power during a go-around from a simulated engine failure maneuver. After diverting, Maintenance concluded that a fouled spark plug was the likely cause.
Time / Day Date : 201704 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 27000 Environment Flight Conditions : IMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Lancair IV/IVP Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Personal Nav In Use : GPS Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Direct Airspace.CIass A : ZZZ Component Aircraft Component : Autopilot Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Design Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Private Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 3500 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 90 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 90 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1444821 Human Factors : Training / Qualification Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events
Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Excursion From Assigned Altitude Anomaly.Deviation - Speed : All Types Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Loss Of Aircraft Control Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.Flight Crew : Overcame Equipment Problem Result.FIight Crew : Regained Aircraft Control Result.FIight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I was on an IFR flight plan at cruise altitude FL 270. I had entered light IMC at approximately -34C about 10 minutes before the incident happened. I encountered no icing on any of the surfaces of the airframe (I am fully de-iced equipped and would have activated de-ice measures if any symptoms had surfaced). I started showing an airspeed drop, very fast, on the Garmin G3X and then got an airspeed warning (impending stall). The Garmin autopilot immediately took stall evasive action by pitching the plane down. As I noticed the altitude tape start rolling downward I realized for the first time my autopilot was connected to airspeed, not just the ADAHRS (Attitude and Heading Reference System) or internal gyros, like in my previous plane. I immediately disconnected the autopilot as I knew we could not have possibly slowed the plane this fast and the autopilot was actually getting me into a dangerous position by diving the plane, possibly to the point of exceeding VNE. About this time the first call came from ATC asking me what was going on with my altitude. I replied I am dealing with an issue to which he responded to call him with an update as soon as I could. I then turned on the pitot heat, as that was about the only thing that came to mind quickly that might correct the loss of airspeed indication on the EFIS. Within about 30 seconds the airspeed came alive and climbed very fast into the Vne area. I immediately pulled power and went to full forward pitch on the prop. Unfortunately, it now appeared the autopilot had run the pitch servo into an extreme pitch down condition. I was still in IMC and concerned about the plane coming apart so I reactivated the autopilot and hit the "Level" button. I knew the autopilot servos were set to torque values that likely would not exceed the airframe capabilities. While this was all happening, I then got a warning in my headset to "don oxygen mask". I have a cabin audible alert wired into my headset that warns of cabin pressurization loss. I then realized pulling off all engine power had now resulted in no bleed air to pressurize the aircraft. I glanced at the cabin pressure and saw I still had 2 PSI, so elected to keep the power off until getting the aircraft back under control. The plane leveled off at 23,000. At this time I got my second call from ATC and I was able to give him a preliminary update on what had just happened. I resumed power and prop condition to normal and requested a climb back to FL270. At this point it was clear there must have been some ice on the pitot tube. This whole event happened within 60-90 seconds. I looked over the aircraft again, looking at the windshield, wings and horizontal stabilizers, and had absolutely no ice anywhere.
Some very important lessons were learned through this event, and this was clearly the most life threatening event I have ever had in 3,500 hours of flying. I have never lost control of an airplane in IMC, and especially under a scenario where my instrument indications were not reliable enough to get me out of the situation. Applying emergency procedures just taught to me during transition training a few months ago (power back, prop full forward) likely saved my life. The second contributing factor to a safe outcome was the autopilot's option of "level", which just levels the plane off. I have had pitot tube icing in previous aircraft resulting in momentary airspeed loss until applying pitot heat, but always had the autopilot fly the airplane normally during the event. This new Garmin autopilot is not gyro based, and in addition has a safety feature that tries to keep the plane from stalling, which is based on airspeed input. Loss of airspeed on this new autopilot WILL result in a pitch down command to the autopilot, whether the aircraft actually needs that or not. How will this experience change the way I fly? I ALWAYS turn on the pitot heat when in IMC at any temp below +5C, regardless if there is no indication of ice anywhere else on the plane. If I ever suddenly lose airspeed indication again, during autopilot operation, I will immediately disconnect the autopilot before it can adjust the pitch servo outside the current condition position (level, climbing or descending modes). I think it's also critical to disseminate this major change in autopilot operation from the older systems that are gyro based with no connection to airspeed, verses newer glass versions that attempt to avoid stall or over-speed conditions that are directly connected to the airspeed tape. I am fairly sure I will not be the last pilot to experience this condition with this new Garmin/G3X Autopilot Systems. The next one may not be as lucky as me. Synopsis Lancair IV pilot reported erroneous airspeed at FL270 due to pitot icing led the G3X autopilot to attempt to maintain airspeed by pitching down.
Time / Day Date : 201704 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZJX.ARTCC State Reference : FL Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 11000 Environment Weather Elements / Visibility : Icing Weather Elements / Visibility : Turbulence Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZJX Make Model Name : Baron 55/Cochise Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Direct Airspace.CIass E : ZJX Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory Center : ZJX Make Model Name : Bonanza 35 Flight Plan : IFR Flight Phase : Climb Airspace.CIass E : ZJX Person Reference : I Location Of Person.FaciIity : ZJX.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Enroute Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1440882 Human Factors : Time Pressure Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Airspace Violation : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Airborne Conflict : 20 Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Excursion From Assigned Altitude Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy
Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Aircraft X was at 11,000 feet and asked for 12,000 feet to climb over weather. He wasn't able to level at 12,000 feet and asked to descend to 9,000 feet. Opposite direction traffic was level at 10,000 feet and was inside of TLH Approach Control. It was handed off to me and asking for a climb to 12,000 feet. The aircraft were head on and approximately 5 miles apart. Aircraft X leveled at 11,000 feet and demanded 9,000 feet for weather. I called traffic at 10,000 feet and head on. Aircraft X advised he was descending without ATC clearance because of weather. I advised the Aircraft X that he was either declaring a Weather Emergency or he was having a pilot deviation. Aircraft X declared he was "deviating". Separation was lost. Management said it was 0.0 lateral and 600 feet vertical. Aircraft X descended through traffic and into TLH approach. TLH approach wanted to talk to the aircraft. I shipped him and waited for management to decide how to handle this error. They told me to read the aircraft the Brasher warning which I did about 15 minutes later when TLH approach handed the aircraft off to me. Later when I solicited a PIREP from the pilot of Aircraft X, he said Light Rime Ice and Light Turbulence during the time he descended through traffic. Synopsis ZJX Controller reported an airborne conflict occurred when a pilot descended for weather even though he had been advised of opposite direction traffic below it.
Time / Day Date : 201704 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : Marginal Weather Elements / Visibility : Cloudy Weather Elements / Visibility : Snow Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 1200 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Corporate Make Model Name : Citation X (C750) Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Takeoff Component Aircraft Component : Engine Fuel Filter Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Corporate Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.FIight Crew : Captain Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1438874 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Training / Qualification Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Crew
When Detected : Taxi Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Crew was departing on the second leg of the day after a 28 minute quick turn for fuel and one passenger. Anti-ice was selected ON during the taxi for departure to post the Vspeeds for an A1 on takeoff. A1 Cold messages posted during the taxi, so a static takeoff was elected to clear the cold messages prior to departure. During the power up, A1 Stab hot CAS (Crew Alert System) messages posted, additionally the Fuel Filter Bypass L CAS message posted. The pilot not flying cycled the A1 switches to clear the hot messages and the pilot flying released brakes to start the takeoff roll. We were aware of the Fuel Filter Bypass CAS but continued the takeoff. Rotation and climbout were normal, and once at a safe altitude we ran the Fuel Filter Bypass L checklist. The procedure called to land as soon as possible, but given the weather and mountainous terrain we elected to continue on. We notified management of our situation, and we considered it could be a nuisance amber CAS message. Thirty minutes into the flight we were within range of several suitable airports, but since both engines were operating normally, and no secondary issues noted, we continued to land as soon as practical at the destination airport where maintenance could be facilitated. We maintained glide distance from suitable airports for the duration of the flight, kept the nearest-airport page up on and reviewed best glide speed for our gross weight. Total flight time was 1.8 hours. On engine shutdown the Fuel Filter L bypass message cleared. The passengers deplaned, and the crew began to discuss what they could have done better. In reviewing the fault logs, the crew noted that the Fuel Filter Bypass message had posted at O KIAS, but being in a 'quick turn' state of mind had started the takeoff anyway. Per maintenance request, the crew started the LH engine for an idle power ground run to confirm the CAS message valid. Shortly after engine start the amber Fuel Filter Bypass L CAS message posted. In the post-flight debrief of events the crew recognized how lucky they were to have no loss of engine power. If it was a fuel contamination issue, both engines could have failed in marginal VFR conditions in mountainous terrain. G5000 airplanes have a tendency to post numerous amber CAS messages that the crew finds a little too easy to justify. This "Amber CAS fatigue" is likely why the crew didn't consider the full gravity of one of the few "land as soon as possible" amber CAS messages until airborne and climbing away. The correct answer was to abort the takeoff at O KIAS, and call for maintenance support. Instead the pilot flying released brakes and began the takeoff with the previous Stab Hot messages in mind, in an effort to get some cooling airflow over the surface. There was no icing on descent and landing, and no icing on climbout. This was a failure by both crewmembers in communicating the need to abort, followed by a decision not to land as soon as possible. Our complacency is weighing heavy on us, and we regret we gave Murphy's Law a shot at us. Good thing Murphy didn't take it.
Synopsis CE-750 Captain reported regretting his decision to takeoff and complete the flight after receiving a fuel filter bypass light just before takeoff.
Time / Day Date : 201703 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZSE.ARTCC State Reference : WA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 7700 Environment Weather Elements / Visibility : Icing Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZSE Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Twin Bonanza 50 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Personal Nav In Use : GPS Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Direct Route In Use.Airway : V2 Airspace.CIass E : ZSE Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.FaciIity : ZSE.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Enroute Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1435492 Human Factors : Training / Qualification Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Chart Or Publication Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Aircraft X checked onto my frequency from Seattle Approach and was looking for the lowest altitude possible for icing. At first I told him I could only get him down to 8,400 feet, which was the Minimum Enroute Altitude (MEA) on V 2. My Minimum IFR Altitude was lower in the area but I would have lost radar contact with him and did not want him to be on vectors. Aircraft X advised me that he was GPS equipped and requesting the GPS MEA of 7,700 feet which I did not even realize was an option on the airway. I gave it a quick glance to confirm and I issued him a descent to 7,700 feet. He did indeed go non-radar for a portion and reported BEEZR at which point I had him back an re- identified him. At that point it was questioned by my Assist controller about the MEA after BEEZR. I quickly realized the GPS MEA was no longer valid and needed him up to 8,000 feet by BEEZR. I issued him a climb to regain compliance with the MEA on the airway. It might just be me, but since I learned how to read maps and charts and there was a few moments of panic as myself and my Assist were trying to determine what all the numbers were. We were confused by the MEA and also the Minimum Obstruction Clearance Altitude (MOCA), about what we could use and how to apply it. At least in our area, we don't do very much low altitude work and getting refreshed on what everything means again would be beneficial. I will definitely take the time to re-learn on my own. With more and more younger controllers coming in that have never used it at all before, it might be good to either clean up our maps if there are numbers that aren't even applicable or to have some of that included in our annual refresher. Synopsis A Center Controller was not familiar with the lowest altitudes he could approve for an aircraft experiencing icing and allowed the aircraft to fly below their Minimum Vectoring Altitude.
Time / Day Date : 201703 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Relative Position. Distance. Nautical Miles : 10 Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 5000 Environment Flight Conditions : IMC Weather Elements / Visibility : Cloudy Weather Elements / Visibility : Icing Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : 10 Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 3500 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : PC-12 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Climb Route In Use : Vectors Airspace.CIass E : ZZZ Component Aircraft Component : Electrical Distribution Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 9277 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 1
Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 1619 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.FIight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Experience.Flight Crew. Total : 1050 1435424 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 300 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 200 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1436034 Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector.Automation : Aircraft Other Automation Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Landed As Precaution Result.Flight Crew : Returned To Departure Airport Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 The takeoff was uneventful and our clearance assigned an altitude of 3,000 feet. We were turned over to TRACON where we were given a clearance to climb to 9,000 feet. After entering the overcast at about 3,500 feet and climbing we received an AOA deice Caution and Warning System (CAWS). At about 6,000, and in IMC, I felt that given the forecast icing along our route, it necessary to return to [departure airport]. We told ATC that we wanted to return for a maintenance issue. We were asked if we were [advising of an emergency situation]. Since we were not seeing any airframe ice at the time we responded no. We were given vectors and a descent and during that maneuvering in IMC we noted an avionics buss CAWS and a non-essential buss CAWS with both Electronic Attitude Direction Indicator and Electronic Horizontal Situation Indicators on both the Pilot in Command and Second in Command panels going blank. I transitioned to the peanut gyro and Radio Magnetic Indicator for maneuvering and [advised ATC]. We re-entered VMC at about 3,500 feet and had visual contact with [departure airport]. We landed without further event. Narrative: 2
[Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis PC-12 flight crew reported returning to departure airport after experiencing multiple electrical anomalies.
Time / Day Date : 201703 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.SingIe Value : O Aircraft Reference : X Make Model Name : Citation Excel (C560XL) Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Ferry Flight Phase : Parked Component Aircraft Component : Flap Control (Trailing & Leading Edge) Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.Flight Crew : Captain Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1434353 Human Factors : Troubleshooting Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Maintenance Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : MEL Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : Pre-flight Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Aircraft Aircraft Human Factors Procedure
Narrative: 1 We were assigned to do a flight covered by a Special Maintenance (MX) Ferry Permit technically an Operational Check Flight (OCF) in accordance with the Non Routine Flight Operation (NRFO) manual. Both of us are not NRFO pilots and the flight was classified as a Group I flight. The open discrepancy was related to the HYD system particularly, a discrepancy when the flaps are raised to Flaps O. The original Ferry Permit included two limitations: No icing conditions and speed below 200 KTS. However, once reviewing the MX logbook I realized that the MX sign-off for the ferry flight included a statement that the flaps were preset to Flaps 7 the usual configuration prior to engine-start is Flaps O. I contacted the Assistant Chief Pilot (ACP) to confirm what the intended parameters of the flight should be. The ACP thought we were free to utilize the flaps as needed aside from raising it to Flaps O; however, he wanted to confer with MX first. Turns out, MX wanted us to maintain Flaps 7 configuration throughout the flight to include landing. Upon the receipt of said information, I asked for a revised Special MX Ferry Permit that includes the additional limitation. Upon flight deck pre-flight inspection we noticed the flaps were indeed set to Flaps 7; however, the Flap Control CB was pulled and collared. I reviewed the log-book again to find whether a notation was made related to the pulling and securing of said CB. None was found. Therefore, I contacted the ACP again for clarification. The "Air Boss" indicated that the CB should not be pulled and collared and that no MX procedure exists for doing so. Once MX rectified the CB situation and completed another inspection and [logbook] entry as to the safe condition of the aircraft and a proper Special MX Ferry Permit in hand we departed on the short flight from ZZZ to ZZZI. We planned on utilizing the Abnormal/Emergency Checklist for this flight Flaps Inoperative Approach and Landing as it is the only data and checklist we have for a partial flap landing. The normal procedures checklist does not address partial flap landings. Furthermore, neither dispatch, nor, iPreFlight performance calculator have data for Flaps 7 landing. No briefing by the Company was conducted to advise/instruct us to utilize said Abnormal/Emergency Checklist. What safety implications would it have had in case we didn't think ahead and plan accordingly I.e. Systemically, what are the chances the next crew won't remember to do so? Initially, an alternate was needed for the flight. Dispatch wanted to send us to ZZZI which has a shorter runway; without the accurate data the dispatcher had no way of knowing what we would need. We asked the alternate to be filled for ZZZ3 instead that would have had a much greater margin of error for such a NRFO operation. Finally, after asking for Flaps 7 takeoff data from Dispatch on more than a few phone calls; Dispatch released us with Flaps 15 takeoff data instead. We confirmed via iPreFIight locally what takeoff performance as well as landing performance we needed prior to launch; however, it did not decrease our workload; and, from a systemic stand point, would other crews have done the same 100% of the time? The question that I have, why are the crews seemly the only safety/regulatory valve for such a NRFO operation? This Company has an accepted/approved Safety Management System program/manual, it would be my hope that the crews would not be the only
safety/regulatory valve in the system. Particularly, as neither one of the assigned crew was a NRFO crew. Synopsis Captain of a Non Routine Flight Operation reported his thoughts on maintenance procedures for compliance with a maintenance ferry flight for an aircraft with a flap issue.
Time / Day Date : 201703 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : IAD.Airport State Reference : DC Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility : Icing Weather Elements / Visibility : Snow Work Environment Factor : Temperature - Extreme Light : Dawn Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Ground : IAD ATC / Advisory. Tower : IAD Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Light Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : GPS Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Taxi Flight Phase : Takeoff Flight Phase : Parked Airspace.CIass B : IAD Component Aircraft Component : Turbine Engine Aircraft Reference : X Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1432830 Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Distraction
Human Factors Human Factors Events : Fatigue : Situational Awareness Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Illness Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Other / Unknown Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Other / Unknown Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Flight Crew Detector. Person : Gate Agent / CSR When Detected : Pre-flight Result.General : Maintenance Action Result.Aircraft : Aircraft Damaged Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 Aircraft Airport Human Factors Weather On the flight into IAD early in the morning we had initially been cleared for the ILS IR. Approach control then cancelled the approach clearance because he had been informed that IR was now closed due to unacceptable runway condition. IC was declared active runway and we received vectors for ILS IC with runway condition of 3/3/3. When we landed on IC it was extremely rough. Snow had melted and refrozen, creating big ice berms several inches high in places. Snow plows and sweepers were out but had yet to clean the majority of taxiways and any runway. I asked for taxi assistance to get to our ramp and airport operations vehicle came out to marshal us across the airport. Throughout the taxi we had to cross vast areas completely covered in ice and snow and snow drifts up to a foot tall. I kept engine de-ice on throughout all air and ground operations. After we parked at our ramp I decided to put plugs and engine covers on the aircraft. It was windy and blowing snow and I did not want snow to get into the engine cores and melt and refreeze in case we had a substantial ground delay. The engine fans were still turning rapidly in the wind and I did not notice any damage at that time. I turned my attention to the landing gear which was completely covered in ice and snow. I cleaned off the landing gear and inspected for damage to tires, struts, actuators and brake lines because my main concern was landing gear damage due to the rough ground condition we had encountered. About an hour later with passengers on board we received clearance to our filed destination with runway IC still the active runway, runway condition 3/3/3 and no departure delays. We then proceeded to the de-ice pad and got de-iced with type I and type 4. We kept engines running during the de-icing. We then received taxi instructions across the airport to runway IC. Again I kept the engine heat on throughout all taxiing. While some taxiways had been cleared of snow in the meantime, most were still in really bad condition. In the hour we had been on parked on the ramp there had been a lot of snow plow activity on the airport. I made the wrong assumption that since IAD is a major
international airport the active runway had received priority and been swept before they would clear anybody to depart from it. We were cleared for takeoff on IC. The runway was just as rough and contaminated as when we had landed. The aircraft was jostled and shaken violently and combined with the poor friction it was literally skipping sideways across the runway. At around 80-90 knots it became clear I would not be able to maintain directional control and I aborted the takeoff. I never touched the wheel brakes as the snow and roughness of the runway was enough to slow the aircraft down and we coasted to a stop before exiting. I informed ATC that IC was unacceptable for takeoff due to the rough ice contamination. They offered us runway 30 for takeoff instead. Last runway condition for 30 was 2/2/2 and last aircraft had departed 2.5 hours ago. I refused runway 30. Runway IR was offered. It was in the process of being cleared and would be ready shortly with an updated runway condition report. At this point the temperature had increased to zero Celsius, the sun was up and our type 4 de-ice fluid had not sheared off on the takeoff attempt. There was no visual wing contamination and I decided that further de-icing would be unnecessary. Rather than taxi back, I accepted runway IR and would wait for an updated condition report. We received taxi instructions across the airport to runway IR. Again we encountered significant taxiway contamination that required significant thrust to taxi across. Halfway across the airport, the airport ground operations supervisor broke in on the radio and said "runway IR is closed. I don't know why they're sending you there". A discussion ensued on the radio between ATC and airport operations as which runway was open and active. Everything seemed rather disorganized. Airport operations told us directly it would be 30-40 minutes before they would have IR cleared. We then told ATC we would taxi back and wait it out instead. The passengers deplaned and we added some more fuel. I also spent considerable time cleaning snow and ice accumulation off the landing gear and injured my hands in the process. It was still windy and the fans were spinning and I did not notice any external damage to the engines. The air temperature was now just above freezing and I decided against a second de-icing. It was nearly an hour before we got word that runway IR had now been cleared and opened for takeoff. The engine de-ice bleed air switches were selected ON throughout all ground operations from right after engine start. Again it took considerable power to taxi across the ice contaminated portions of the taxiways. I briefed my copilot that we would cycle the gear an extra time after takeoff to fling off snow and ice. We [were] the third aircraft to take off from IR. I was flying pilot and I did notice that the aircraft was pulling slightly left. That was consistent with the wind direction but I also assumed it was more pronounced because of possible snow and ice in the brakes. After takeoff there was some vibration which I ascribed to ice on the underside of the wing from the takeoff roll or possibly an inboard landing gear door not being able to close completely. The engines performed normally at that time. As I accelerated above 10000 feet the vibration subsided. As we reached 30000 feet it became clear that the left engine was operating subpar and we would not be able to climb to the planned 40000 feet cruise altitude. I switched engine sync to N2 instead Of NI but there would be an NI split between the engines with left engine maxing out first. Fuel flow, oil temp, oil pressure, generator performance etc. seemed consistent with an otherwise healthy engine so I elected to complete the flight at 36000 feet. I was extremely tired and exhausted at this time. After landing and deplaning passengers the FBO line service man mentioned that we appear to have lost some fan blades. A post flight inspection revealed ice damage to several fan blades on #1 engine and a chip out of a stator on Number 2 engine. I do not know at what point throughout the morning's events the damage might have occurred. I should have called fatigue and scrubbed the flight that morning. My judgement was
impaired by job fatigue, stress and lack of sleep. We had been flying a lot, had a full schedule every single day of this rotation. We've had to deal with weather, missed approaches, destination changes due to weather and multiple maintenance issues. For the last couple of days I had been dropping hints to our company that I was getting really tired and close to calling fatigue. The company response was to keep loading up our schedule. The night prior I had been locked out of my hotel room after returning from dinner due to a technical issue with the electronic lock. It took considerable time and hotel security to come and fix the lock and let me into my room. I was around midnight before I got to sleep. My alarm woke me up at well before sunrise. On the final leg I was unable to stay awake and had to take controlled nap. I was not thinking clearly that morning and my judgement as a captain could have been much better. One of our R TU's (Radio Tuning Unit) had failed days earlier. Company maintenance decided to defer it by MEL as long as possible rather than fix or replace it as soon as practical. There had been opportunities to replace the R TU in either north or south maintenance stations, but instead we kept flying with a single R TU. On every flight we had to operate two radios using a single R TU. It takes a lot of mental focus to keep from messing up frequencies when using a single unit. During all of our taxiing across the airport in IAD we had to communicate on 3 frequencies simultaneously: ATC ground control, ramp control and FBO. It was extremely mentally exhausting to only have a single R TU for that. Dulles Airport seemed caught by surprise by the late season snow storm and didn't seem to have a coherent plan. I was appalled by the lousy condition of the active runway IC. While we managed to land on it alright, along with some heavier jets, the small wheels on our jets were unable to cope as well as the larger jet's wheels. The same goes for the poor condition of the taxiways. I have been at many airports over the years, big and small, and this is by far the worst snow cleaning I have ever experienced. The poor planning was evidenced by the confusion and discussion on open radio between ATC and airport operations. Ironically, if this had been a small uncontrolled airport I would have personally made the call and deemed all surface conditions unacceptable for operating until completely cleaned. But because this was a major international airport with snow cleaning equipment and airport operations vehicles inspecting taxiways and runways I deferred to their judgment instead. I did not think that a major airport would clear aircraft to operate on unsafe surfaces. I should have listened to my personal intuition and experience, but I was tired and stressed. I never heard any chunks of ice being ingested into the engines even though considerable power had to be used during taxi at IAD. The roughness, drag and noise from the wheels plowing through the taxiway snow might have masked any engine events. I should probably have given more thought to a more thorough inspection of the engines. But every time we were parked I did not see any external damage to the engine cowlings or intakes and the fans were spinning rapidly in the breeze. Inspecting the fans would have entailed climbing up on the slippery wing and stopping the fan disc with my hands first. My main focus had been on inspecting and cleaning the landing gear which had seen significant abuse. Synopsis Air taxi Captain reported departing IAD during an unexpectedly late snow and ice event which resulted in damage to both engines discovered at their destination.
Time / Day Date : 201703 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : IMC Weather Elements / Visibility Weather Elements / Visibility Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi : Icing : Turbulence Make Model Name : PA-34 Seneca Undifferentiated Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Landing Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1428647 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Ground Excursion : Runway Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Object Anomaly Ground Event / Encounter : Loss Of Aircraft Control Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action Result.Aircraft : Aircraft Damaged Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Airport Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Weather Narrative: 1 I listened to the ATIS information, then checked in with approach control, and accepted the plan to shoot the RNAV Runway XXL approach, with a circle to land Runway YYR. At this point the visibility was 1 1/2 miles with a ceiling of approximately 1200 overcast. Approach control vectored the aircraft for the Runway XXL approach. The aircraft was in IMC conditions throughout the descent and approach and picking up light to moderate rime ice. Approach handed me off to tower inbound on the Runway XXL approach. I checked in with the tower. Tower informed the pilot that the ATIS changed and that the visibility was reduced to 3/4 mile. The pilot requested to continue the approach to straight in Runway XXL. The tower cleared us as such. No mention of runway conditions were given by tower. The pilot descended on the approach, and saw the airport lights and runway environment at the MDA. The pilot being in a position to land continued down to the runway. I was using an extra 5kts of speed on approach due to residual ice on the aircraft. I believe that touchdown occurred somewhere in the first 1500 ft of the 3200 ft runway. Upon touchdown I realized the braking action was nil and that the aircraft sliding. I was aware that it had been lightly snowing at the airport, but was not aware the runway had not been plowed or treated in any way, and was not offered any information to that affect. I maintained directional control of the aircraft but ran out of runway surface by about ten feet striking a runway end light. The pilot was able to taxi the aircraft to the ramp without further incident. The aircraft's props were damaged. No other damage was known to the time of this report. Synopsis PA-34 pilot reported poor braking action on landing and ran off the end of the runway.
Time / Day Date : 201702 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 6000 Environment Flight Conditions : IMC Weather Elements / Visibility Weather Elements / Visibility Aircraft Reference : X : Icing : Cloudy ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Make Model Name : PC-12 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Ferry Flight Phase : Climb Airspace.CIass E : ZZZ Component : 1 Aircraft Component : Autopilot Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Component : 2 Aircraft Component : Aerofoil Ice System Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Function.Flight Crew : Captain ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1427648 Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Overshoot Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Excursion From Assigned Altitude Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance
Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector.Automation : Aircraft Other Automation Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Overcame Equipment Problem Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 On the initial climb, Pilot Flying (PF) engaged autopilot at approximately 6000 ft with 10,000 ft selected on the altitude selector. After I -2 seconds the aircraft pitched over and entered an uncomanded descent Of approximately 1000 - 1500 FPM. After a loss of approximately 300 ft, the PF disconnected the autopilot, leveled the aircraft and re- entered the climb. During the pitch over and descent the command bars did not follow the pitch over and descent, but rather showed a nose low indication. There were no Cockpit Aural Warning System (CAWS) or aural warnings associated with the event. Once stable in the climb again, we attempted to re-engage the autopilot with the same result. The autopilot was again disconnected, and the decision was made to hand fly the remainder of the climb. We reached VMC conditions at approximately FL200, and leveled off at FL260. With residual rime ice on the wings, we opted to leave the boots on to help remove it quicker. It was at this time that the de-ice boots amber CAWS illuminated. We ran the procedure, but the boots failed a second time and were left in the Off position per the QRH. As we're were in VMC conditions, the remaining ice eventually sublimated. In cruise we reviewed the QRH and determined that the Autopilot Trim procedure was the only thing that closely resembled what we had experienced, although the conditions for the procedure include the Autopilot Trim CAWS and aural warning, which we did not have. We decided to try the autopilot one more time to see if it reacted the same way from a cruise condition with the altitude captured. This time engaging the autopilot caused the aircraft to initially pitch up approximately 8 degrees, followed by a pitch down and a descent. The PF disengaged the autopilot and leveled back at FL 260. Altitude deviation was less than +/-IOO ft. We opted to hand fly the remainder of the flight, and after contacting operations and maintenance, we decided to continue to our planned destination. After further discussion between the crew, we also decided to safe the system per the Autopilot Trim checklist in the QRH prior to reaching 10,000 ft. After completing our initial descent below the flight levels we were assigned a further descent Of 11,000 ft. I assumed the the controls, while the FO began with the QRH checklist, the last item of which calls for the Autopilot circuit breaker to be pulled. Upon pulling the circuit breaker, at approximately 12,500 ft we lost our flight director, yaw damper and altitude controller, which also disabled the aural altitude warnings. We continued with a stable descent but realized we had missed our assigned altitude by approximately 700 ft, stopping the descent at 10,300 ft. We climbed back up, to 11,000 ft and reported the deviation to ATC, also noting that we were in the process of working an avionics issue. The controller acknowledged the deviation, but had no further response. The remainder of the flight was flown without incident, with a visual approach and normal landing. Synopsis PC-12 Captain reported that they connected the autopilot during climb and the aircraft pitched over and went into an uncommanded descent.
Time / Day Date : 201702 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : FAY.Airport State Reference : NC Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 11000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility : Cloudy Weather Elements / Visibility : Icing Weather Elements / Visibility.VisibiIity Light : Daylight Ceiling.Single Value : 8000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : FAY Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Small Aircraft Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Direct Airspace.CIass E : FAY Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 3500 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 105 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 780 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1427427 Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events
Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Comms with ATC were broken. It took three attempts to check in when passed to FAY. Controller was also heavily tasked. Controller directed descent to 5000. With an hour of flight to go and a cloud layer below with temps under SC, I did not want to descend yet. Asked if I could stay at 11000 and offered to go VFR. Received broken reply but could hear '...5000.' With VMC above 9000 1 responded with 'cancel IFR VFR squawking 1200'. Response was again broken, but it then ended with '...are you refusing to obey ATC instructions'. I was stunned - paused... responded that I thought if VFR I could select appropriate VFR altitude. Controller response broken and ended with VFR below 10,500. I initiated a descent and again asked if VFR could I not select my altitude. At this point I'm worried about cloud clearance as a VFR aircraft, but could tell from broken comms controller wanted me lower. Next understandable comms from controller was asking me to call them after landing but the phone number was unreadable (they repeated it for me). I leveled off at 10500 even though heading east so as to stay 1000 ft above the clouds. Controller then asked me to switch frequencies. Lessons learned. 1) I should have initiated a descent FIRST when directed to 5000 then explained concerns about icing vice asking to stay at 11000. 2) I should have informed the controller that parts of his transmissions were unreadable and asked for repeat instead of cancelling IFR. 3) I should have realized that if I was having difficulty hearing controller he might also be having difficulty hearing me. Yes, logic was that I have VMC on top, can assure separation on top, and comms were broken, so I can solve those by staying VMC, cancelling IFR and going VFR, and not descending, but I did not have as good of a good picture of other factors involved like the controller had. If I had started a descent and asked for a readback/repeat, then either said that I was unable to comply (descend onto the clouds with potential icing) or that I needed a delay above the clouds or requested a vector instead of descent if possible (while descending), it would have been better. By cancelling IFR and going VFR I solved my problem but made the controller's problems worse. Last lesson learned is to default to 'informing' controllers of comms issues vice asking for something specifically. They almost always have better Situational Awareness than pilots do even when they are having comms Issues. Synopsis
Pilot reported while on an IFR flight plan he declined to descend into a cloud layer below due to icing concerns.
Time / Day Date : 201702 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZZZ.ARTCC State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 15000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X ATC/ Advisory.Center : ZZZ ATC/ Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : SR22 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass E : ZZZ Component : 20 Aircraft Component : Magneto/ Distributor Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Failed Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 652 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 9 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 20 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number . • 1426772 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Troubleshooting
Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result. General : Maintenance Action Result.Flight Crew : Diverted : Less Severe : Critical Result.Flight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.FIight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 I was pilot in command and my passenger was a private-certificated, instrument-rated co- owner of the incident aircraft. We were on an IFR flight plan, the first leg of a multi-day trip. We were established in cruise at 15,000 feet and ahead of us at our altitude was a line of clouds that presented an icing risk, corroborated with a NEXRAD SLD risk, so I requested and received a climb to 17,000 from center. Before commencing the climb, while still programming the new altitude into the flight director, the engine suddenly began noticeably shaking and running rougher. I immediately responded by reducing power and telling center to "standby" in response to the altitude change. I disabled the autopilot and began a left turn to where I had a general conception of the Central Valley (and flatter terrain) to be. Center again asked to confirm the altitude change, and I told them we were troubleshooting an engine problem. Center offered two airports, ZZZ more or less below us and zzzl. I was concentrating on how to react to the engine roughness, and eventually with my passenger's prompting, checked all major fuel-injected piston memory items: mixture rich, fuel pump on, switch tanks. This had no effect. Airspeed was decreasing and I had commenced a controlled 500-fpm descent from our cruising altitude. The engine roughness was manageable below about 30% power. Center meanwhile continued to offer up information about ZZZ (runway length, lighting, etc.) while I tried to focus on what to do about the engine. After conversing with Center, and perceiving the risks of attempting a landing at the smaller and more isolated ZZZ to outweigh the risk of flying to ZZZI, I informed Center of our intention to divert to ZZZI. Center gave me a heading. They offered to hand us off to approach but I was too task- saturated to accept the handoff. Shortly thereafter reception with Center became weak so I requested and received the handoff. After being handed off, I informed approach of our intention to maintain our slow descent and circle overhead the runway to lose altitude within gliding distance. They advised me that radar reception would be limited directly overhead so I opted to circle southeast of the runway in a position to enter the pattern. I was given clearance for a left traffic pattern for ZZZI At this time, I finally had the presence of mind to call for the checklist, which my
passenger began reading off. When trying the left magneto, the engine shut down, so I quickly returned the magneto switch to BOTH. Remembering that not 3 months ago the right magneto had failed on the ground in a similar way, I was now fairly certain that the left magneto had failed. I performed a descent checklist and had my passenger help prepare for the landing by getting the ATIS and finding an FBO. The circling descent was wide and left us well out of gliding distance from the airport, which my passenger objected to, so I corrected. We flew a high base to final and landed without incident. A later inspection revealed that the left magneto's main gear had been destroyed, exactly the failure that plagued the right magneto 3 months prior (on the ground). Factors affecting the quality of human performance Factor: I failed to consider moving the magneto to the RIGHT position so that we could potentially get more power from the engine without excess vibrations. Root cause: Failure to complete the Engine Partial Power Loss checklist due to the "scare factor" of the engine quitting when in the LEFT position. Contributing issues: A lack of critical thinking about the checklist's purpose Factor: I was slow to commence the Engine Partial Power Loss checklist. Root cause: I was having trouble concentrating on, and organizing my approach to, the emergency tasks. Contributing issues: A lack of familiarity with engine power loss scenarios, and interruptions in my train of thought in the course of help provided by the controller and my passenger. The controller and my passenger provided an abundance of unprompted help but I was unable to properly prioritize the radios lower than running the checklist. Factor: I circled outside of gliding range during my descent. Root cause: I lost the "emergency mindset" once I believed that the failure was identical to that of the right magneto 3 months prior, and the situation became familiar to me. Factor: Initial human response to the engine power loss was slow. Root cause: Startle factor Synopsis SR22 pilot reported a rough running engine at 15,000 feet and elected to divert to a suitable airport. During descent it was suspected that the left magneto had failed.
Time / Day Date : 201702 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZDV.ARTCC State Reference : CO Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 22000 Environment Flight Conditions : Mixed Weather Elements / Visibility : Icing Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 20000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ASE Aircraft Operator : Corporate : 10 Make Model Name : Medium Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Nav In Use : GPS Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use : Direct Airspace.CIass A : ZDV Component Aircraft Component : FMS/FMC Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Design Problem : Malfunctioning Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Corporate Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 8048 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 152
: Human-Machine Interface : Distraction Troubleshooting Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Corporate Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 8500 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 120 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 600 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1426265 Human Factors : Distraction : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Workload Human Factors Confusion Human Factors : Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Track / Heading : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Flight Crew Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.Flight Crew : Returned To Clearance Result.Flight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 665 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : : Situational Awareness Human Factors Human Factors : Time Pressure Confusion Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Human Factors Human Factors Human Factors : Person : 2 Reference : 2 Human Factors : Troubleshooting 1426248
At approximately XA25 we were issued a holding clearance at Red Table (DBL) VOR at FL 220. The clearance was to hold northwest, 343 degree radial, 7 mile legs. We were southwest of the VOR when given the clearance. Information was imputed, verified/confirmed, and executed by both crew, the "HOLD" preceding the assigned fix on the "LEGS" page, along with the appropriate holding depiction on our display units. The FMS 2 was left on the "holding page" that reflected the current hold input, this page also allowed us to insert the EFC time as we monitored our fuel status (this was our third hold during the sequencing into Aspen and even though fuel was not a factor, we closely monitored). The aircraft proceeded to initiate a Parallel entry and established the outbound portion. Both the autopilot and FMS sequencing appeared to work normally during the initial entry. As the aircraft tracked outbound we were queried by the controller (Aspen Approach) if we were going to make the inbound turn soon. We acknowledged and immediately focused our attention on our position. The display range was brought down to Inm and noticed that even though the textual (FMS) and visual representation of the hold/course was active, we were very well within limits. I went to "HDG" and took a 30-35 degree left cut to try and maybe awaken the FMS. I then reselected the "LNAV" function and the aircraft turned back to its previous track. Shortly after the controller gave us a left vectoring turn back to Red Table. We were given another holding clearance as he had lost radar coverage on us for a few moments before regaining contact. Apparently, prior to the hold mentioned above, as we completed two previous holds and were descended to an altitude of FL 200, we had already switched over to Aspen Approach when we were told to expect further clearance at DBL. FL200 had us in IMC and icing conditions. We requested a higher altitude as to both avoid the conditions and fuel efficiency. The controller mentioned he would work and coordinate with Denver Center as the altitude was not in his sector. We were cleared to FL210 then to FL220. It was this altitude in which the controller lost radar contact on us and issued the vector. We were given a phone number and told to contact Aspen Tower upon arrival for a "possible pilot deviation". Aspen tower was contacted and was advised that a report was submitted as we continued the entry outbound leg well past the clearance limit. Both the [Operations] and Chief Pilot were immediately contacted upon arrival by the crew to brief on the incident. Upon further inspection and review, Rockwell Collins may suggest we may have overlooked the defect and should have manually continued to make the correction using Heading Mode (HDG) and not revert back to "self-correct" in LNAV. We had a total of 4 holds issued for that leg and as busy as the cockpit was, the lesson learned is automation is great tool during high workloads, it's not perfect and complacency definitely made itself known. Narrative: 2 I think that the automation probably failed, it should have initiated a turn sooner. It seemed to be stuck in a heading mode or roll mode even though LNAV was engaged and captured. We should have monitored it more closely and we should have selected heading mode sooner and started the turn to intercept manually. It was our third hold of that leg and the first two went well so complacency played a roll. This particular hold with 7 mile legs is rather tight compared to the other two holds we had with 15 and 20 mile legs. 7 miles is about 45 seconds. In the future I will make sure to monitor the automation of the 280 more closely. Synopsis A Corporate aircraft crew reported the FMC did not execute a hold correctly but the crew allowed the aircraft to fly out of protected holding airspace and beyond TRACON radar before ATC intervened.
Time / Day Date : 201702 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : BTV.TRACON State Reference : VT Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 7000 Environment Weather Elements / Visibility : Icing Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : BTV Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Small Aircraft, High Wing, 1 Eng, Fixed Gear Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Descent Airspace.CIass E : BTV Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Facility : BTV.TRACON Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Approach Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control.Time Certified In Pos 1 (yrs) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1425114 Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Troubleshooting Human Factors : Confusion Events Anomaly.Airspace Violation : All Types Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Excursion From Assigned Altitude Anomaly.Deviation - Track / Heading : All Types Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance
Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Weather Narrative: 1 Aircraft X entered BTV radar east airspace from the west at 9000 ft. I informed the pilot to advise me of any approach request he might have and to descend and maintain 7000. Aircraft X requested lower altitude after a few minutes due to light ice accumulating. I then gave him the MVA altitude of 6500. I noticed he was not able to maintain his altitude and I gave him a further descent and a vector away from terrain depicted on the EOVM (Emergency Obstruction Video Map). I then noticed Aircraft X was turning towards terrain northwest bound and instructed him to fly northeast bound on a heading of 040 and asked "how he was doing". Aircraft X was able to get below the clouds and out of icing conditions away from terrain shortly thereafter. Synopsis BTV TRACON Controller reported that an aircraft being vectored at the MVA was not able to maintain altitude due to icing.
Time / Day Date : 201702 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZBW.ARTCC State Reference : NH Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 3100 Environment Flight Conditions : IMC Weather Elements / Visibility : Icing Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZBW Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Light Transport Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Ambulance Flight Phase : Descent Route In Use : Vectors Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.Class E : ZBW Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Facility : ZBW.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Enroute Function.Air Traffic Control : Departure Function.Air Traffic Control : Approach Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1425113 Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Situational Awareness Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Facility : ZBW.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Handoff / Assist Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1425123 Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Confusion
Person : 3 Reference : 3 Location Of Person.Facility : ZBW.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Supervisor / CIC Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos 1 (yrs) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1425110 Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Time Pressure Human Factors : Confusion Events Anomaly.Airspace Violation : All Types Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airport Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Weather Narrative: 1 Aircraft X was trying to land at CYES (an uncontrolled airport without an instrument approach). I descended him to 050 for arrival. I advised him of moderate rime icing in the vicinity from a PQI departure with the altitudes and temperature. I advised him that no weather was available for C YES and offered him the FVE weather since it was the closest airport. I provided him the FVE special observation and advised him to contact FSS for the current NOTAMS. He advised that his intentions were to land at CYES visually and advised that his plan was to fly the RNAV approach into FVE via the IAF if he was unable to get the field in sight. He asked for a lower altitude to get ground contact. I descended him to 031 which is the Minimum IFR Altitude (MIA) around PQI. Montreal center called to get an updated departure time for Aircraft X and advised that they were blocking the airspace for him. By this time the complexity of the sectors was rapidly increasing due to weather and increased traffic. I provided Aircraft X with the updated weather at FVE and asked his intentions. He wanted to continue and try to get the field in sight. The PQI departure that had reported moderate rime icing was now reporting severe icing and requesting a climb to avoid. I called the Controller in Charge (CIC) over to report the severe icing while getting further reports from [the PQI departure]. A D side was provided at this time and while they were
being briefed, I noticed that Aircraft X had entered the 035 MIA. I told Aircraft X that if he didn't have the field in sight that he needed to climb to 035. He advised that he did not have the field and was climbing. He stated that he couldn't get the field in sight and wanted to fly the RNAV for FVE. He was issued a right turn to 110 to avoid a higher MVA. While this was occurring, a BGR departure (which I leveled at 100 due to a BGR arrival at 110) reported moderate rime icing at 100. This report was passed to an ALTRAV that was entering the sector that was also landing BGR. I asked the CIC to split the sectors due to complexity and Surry Sector was split off. Any time that an aircraft is going to enter uncontrolled airspace an MSAW alert goes off due to the fact that the MIA is listed as 128. An MSAW alert would be expected and would be looked over. I recommend that there be an instrument approach into CYES. Narrative: 2 I was returning from my break and began running the list to see which Certified Professional Controller (CPC) was ready for a break. The CIC at the time asked me to open up 15/16 D-Side, to assist the radar controller, because there was weather and icing in the Surry sector. As I was opening up the D-side, and getting myself caught up on the traffic situation, the radar controller announced to me that he had mistakenly descended an aircraft below the MIA at 031 in a 035 feet shelf. The aircraft call sign was Aircraft X and it was inbound to CYES, which is an airport in uncontrolled airspace just outside our airspace. The weather conditions were very IFR at CYES. I am not sure why the radar controller descended the aircraft below the MIA, since it happened right as I was sitting down. I am thinking that he was trying to use the TAA [Terminal Arrival Area] for the RNAV 32 approach into the neighboring airport FVE in hopes that the aircraft would get C YES in sight and be able to proceed visually. Unfortunately, I do not know further details about how or why the aircraft was below the MIA. The radar controller was actively working with the CIC to remedy the situation at the time, and then the CIC quickly split the sectors as the next controller was walking into the control room right at that time. There is a lot of ambiguity surrounding aircraft landing at CYES, since it is in uncontrolled airspace and is in Canada. There are no instrument approaches going into that airport, so many times controllers are able to successfully use the approach into FVE to get the aircraft to get CYES in sight. Unfortunately, there is no other way to allow the aircraft to descend below 035 without using that to be able to get low enough to get the airport in sight. It would be very helpful to have an airway that went from PQI to YYY VOR that would allow an aircraft to descend below the 035 MIA, or better yet, an instrument approach going into C YES airport. Narrative: 3 I was working the CIC position for Area D performing a request for a controller when I walked by sector 15/16 and noticed an aircraft that appeared to be flying below the MIA at 3100 feet. I asked the controller working the position what they were doing with that aircraft. The reply from them did not seem the safest answer. Upon further discussion with them it was decided to climb the aircraft back up to the MIA of 3500 feet. I asked the controller to fill out a report and reported it to the Operations Manager In Charge (OMIC). Synopsis ZBW Controllers reported that an aircraft was descended below the Minimum IFR Altitude in error to get it below clouds to see the airport.
Time / Day Date : 201702 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : S56.TRACON State Reference : UT Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 14000 Environment Flight Conditions : Marginal Weather Elements / Visibility : Icing Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : S56 Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Light Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : IFR Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Vectors Airspace.Class E : S56 Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Facility : S56.TRACON Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Approach Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1425068 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types : 15 Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Excursion From Assigned Altitude Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Detector. Person : Flight Crew Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Company Policy Narrative: 1 ZLC called and requested approval for Aircraft X Direct OGD landing SLC at 16,000 feet. I approved it. They called back and said that Aircraft X was struggling to hold altitude and requested 12,000 feet. I stated that I would rather try 14,000 feet in case I had departures that I would have to take over terrain, but under the aircraft. I was aware of Icing reports north of the area at 13,000 feet. It took a while for me to establish communications with Aircraft X due to terrain. When I finally got him, he stated that he was having a hard time holding speed. I asked him if he was in icing. He stated that he was in "hard" icing. I descended him to 13,000 feet. He was still in icing. I descended him to 12,000 feet. The Minimum Vectoring Altitude (MVA) is 11,800 feet in that area. He was still in icing. He stated that he was no longer able to hold altitude. I vectored him towards a canyon using the emergency terrain obstruction map. He was observed below the MVA by about 400 feet. When he was over the canyon he stated that he was still in severe icing and turbulence. The MVA dropped to 11,000 feet so I descended him. I started to turn him towards the localizer for Runway 17. There was traffic converging at the same altitude going to Runway 16 Right. I coordinated with the controller handling that aircraft and then gave Aircraft X a heading to join and descended him as low as I could reference the terrain and shipped him to the Final sector. I filled out a PIREP form and then handed it to the Controller in Charge (CIC). Just then, the Supervisor entered the room. I was not sure how to properly categorize "hard" icing. We had a discussion across the room with the Supervisor engaged. I told both the CIC and the supervisor that I did not know if the icing was Rime or Clear. I did not want to bother the pilot while he was trying to keep his aircraft in control with severe icing and turbulence. Within a minute, the supervisor walked over to me while I was on position and asked again what kind of icing it was. I stated "you've got to be kidding me!" I stated this because the Supervisor was standing right next to the CIC and was engaged in the conversation while it was discussed and I admitted that I did not get the information from the pilot. He then told me that If I was going to be like that, then I did not do my job. I told him that I didn't think it was a good idea to bother the pilot with such a matter when he was being vectored through a canyon and having trouble controlling his aircraft. I was relieved and when I walked up to the desk, the Supervisor (who was not in the room when the incident happened and had not even asked me what happened), told me that I should've got the information in order to help the next pilot. I told him again of my position on the matter. The discussion started to get heated so I asked if I could go on break. He kept going on stating that I did not do my job. There was statements being made within the control room that we were being a distraction. I asked again if I could just go on break. He again engaged in a heated statement that I didn't do my job. I eventually convinced him that I needed to leave the room because we were being a distraction. Synopsis S56 Tracon Controller reported vectoring an aircraft encountering icing and unable to maintain altitude and airspeed into lower terrain and out of the conditions.
Time / Day Date : 201702 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Altitude.AGL.SingIe Value : 700 Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Stagger Wing 17 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Personal Component Aircraft Component : Carburetor Aircraft Reference : Z Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Private Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 2593 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 3 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 18 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : Human Factors : Troubleshooting Events 1424776 Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Flight Crew Were Passengers Involved In Event : N When Detected : In-flight Result.General : Evacuated Result.Flight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Result.Aircraft : Aircraft Damaged Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 Aircraft Weather I was flying about 700 feet AGL, when the engine sputtered and quit (I believe it was caused by carburetor icing.) I pushed the throttle ahead full, pulled carb heat and pumped the hand pump with no results so I ended up landed in the only safe place to land that would also cause the least damage to the aircraft. I landed gear up on the snow in a swamp instead of the woods. Synopsis A Beechcraft Staggerwing pilot reported losing engine power around 700 feet and landing straight ahead with his gear up.
Time / Day Date : 201702 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : BOS.Airport State Reference : MA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 6100 Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : A90 Make Model Name : PC-12 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Ferry Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Climb Airspace.CIass B : BOS Component : 1 Aircraft Component : Autopilot Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Failed Component : 2 Aircraft Component : Aerofoil Ice System Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Failed Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1424209 Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Fatigue Events
Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Overshoot Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.General : Maintenance Action Result.Flight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.FIight Crew : Returned To Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 We departed out of BOS off of runway 9. Climbing out Of 6,400 feet to FL260, the autopilot was engaged. The command bars were set in pitch mode N5 degrees with altitude armed and not yet captured. Heading mode was the active lateral guidance. When the autopilot was engaged, the aircraft immediately pitched un-commanded to 9-10 degrees and was immediately followed by a nose down descending pitch of N6 degrees. I am unsure what the exact pitch down was at the time; however, the aircraft was descending +1500 feet/min. Recognizing the autopilot was not responding to commands, I disconnected the autopilot. The autopilot disconnected, and the controls were extremely heavy with a nose down tendency. The autopilot had trimmed the aircraft nearly full nose down. By the time the aircraft was back under positive control, we had lost 300 feet (6,400 feet to 6,100 feet indicated) in the climb. Primary flight control movement was free and correct. The aircraft was hand flown until we topped the clouds. Reaching FL240, we attempted to reengage the autopilot. The flight director was commanding nav mode and altitude capture. The same results occurred. The last attempt was after we leveled off at FL260. In level flight with nav and altitude commanded, the autopilot still displayed the same results: a rapid pitch to 8-10 degrees nose up followed by a rapid descent to about 6 degrees nose down with the pitch trim motor trimming full nose down. The flight director commanded level flight during this occurrence. No Caution and Warning System (CAWS) messages or aural warnings were received. [Captain] called Maintenance and Company to inform them of the situation. VFR conditions prevailed in [destination]; thus, it was a good place to land. To combat fatigue from hand-flying, [Captain] and I alternated Pilot Flying/Pilot Monitoring duties. Several minutes before the descent, we collectively decided to run the QRH procedure for a failed autopilot since the conditions were near identical to what we had received. Further, we did not want the autopilot servo to engage un-commanded. The procedure called for the autopilot circuit breaker to be pulled. ATC gave us a crossing restriction on the arrival into [destination]: cross ZZZZZ Intersection at 11,000. During the descent, we ran the QRH procedure. The Autopilot circuit breaker was pulled, and the entire autopilot control panel became inoperative: the autopilot, altitude alerts, yaw damper, and flight director went out. Since the QRH did not specify we would lose these items, it came as a bit of a shock. Our workload increased drastically. As I was setting up the approach for the RNAV into ZZZ, [Captain] asked what altitude we were supposed to be at, and we then realized that we had blown our assigned altitude of 11,000 by 500 feet (10,500 feet). During this, we had been given a controller change to Approach. Checking on with the controller, we stated that we were 10,500
climbing 11,000 and stated that we had descended through our assigned altitude and were correcting for the mistake. The controller was very calm, and relaxed and did not mention a notice of pilot deviation. Had the QRH specified that the altitude alerts would be inoperative, we would not have had the altitude deviation. After landing, the autopilot was written up per the MEL and maintenance request. In the initial cruise, we also suffered a de-ice boot fail. We ran the QRH for a de-ice boot failure. The CAWS appeared at 35 seconds into the cycle. We maintained flight in non-icing conditions and landed in ZZZ. The de-ice boots were written up per the MEL and maintenance request. Limit autopilot failures to VFR conditions. Increase awareness that the QRH will not state the loss of altitude alerts, flight director, yaw damper, etc with this procedure. In my opinion, we would not have had the altitude deviation had the QRH stated it would become inoperative. Synopsis A PC-12 First Officer reported that they overshot an altitude crossing clearance during descent. Autopilot failure and increased workload were mentioned as key contributors.
Time / Day Date : 201702 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : PVD.Tower State Reference : RI Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : IMC Weather Elements / Visibility : Snow Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : PVD Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Large Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Cargo / Freight Flight Phase : Taxi Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.FaciIity : PVD.Tower Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Local Function.Air Traffic Control : Ground Function.Air Traffic Control : Flight Data / Clearance Delivery Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1423490 Communication Breakdown : Distraction : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Human Factors Human Factors Human Factors : Time Pressure Breakdown. Partyl Communication Breakdown. Party2 Communication Communication Breakdown.Party2 Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer : Ground Personnel : Flight Crew Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying
Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1424456 Person : 3 Reference : 3 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1424460 Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Taxiway Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : Taxi Result.FIight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Airport Narrative: 1 Airport Company Policy Human Factors Procedure Staffing Weather I worked Aircraft X for a few hours on the night of the occurrence. When Aircraft X was still on the ramp de-icing I asked Operations to say conditions of the first 100 feet of the runway. Earlier OPS had advised me to caution aircraft when they back taxi to use caution during their turn around on the runway, that the first 100 feet of the runway was sloppy. OPS responded that it had been adjusted a little bit and to change the caution to the first 50 feet of the runway. I then asked what the condition of the taxiway run up pad is, would that be a better place for the aircraft to turn around? OPS responded if the aircraft could shorten their runway use by a hundred feet or so that would work or the run up pad would be a good option. Aircraft X requested taxi with current ATIS information. I instructed Aircraft X to taxi. I then advised Aircraft X of their two options for turnaround: the runway was available using caution for the first 50 feet of or the option to taxi off the runway and turn around in the run up pad. Aircraft X responded that he would use the run up pad. An UNKN tag appears on a taxiway and the runway. OPS calls on frequency at the taxiway. I was recording the appended NOTAM portion for the overnight ASOS broadcast and did not respond to OPS right away. OPS calls again. I acknowledge the vehicle. I ask Aircraft X if he will be ready upon reaching the runway. He responds yes, he'll need about 10 seconds. I try to initiate a silent release and get an error message about the flight not stored. I full route the
clearance to make sure the flight plan has not timed out and make sure it is still active in the system. OPS calls on taxiway requesting to cross the intersecting runway. I scan out the window to verify the OPS vehicle position and then instruct him to cross. A controller in the TRACON calls upstairs to ask about if Aircraft X is using a closed taxiway. I look out the window and check the ASD-X and Aircraft X is in the run up area. I said I did not instruct Aircraft X to taxi onto the closed taxiway and did not see him turn onto that taxiway. The controller inquired if OPS said anything? I said I have OPS headed towards the approach end of the runway and he did not question the aircraft's movements. The controller says Aircraft X is released. Aircraft X calls ready for departure and I instruct him to standby. I read the 5 minute prior to closing announcement on frequency. Maintenance vehicle calls and I ask him to say again. Maintenance vehicle on taxiway requesting to cross the approach end of an intersecting runway. I issue Aircraft X his takeoff clearance. Aircraft X taxis onto the runway for departure. Aircraft X tags up off the departure end and I switch him to departure frequency. Aircraft X thanks me for all the help and leaves my frequency. In reviewing the recordings and ASD-X I found that when OPS is requesting to cross a runway it is the same time that Aircraft X appears to turn onto the closed taxiway. This short taxiway leads directly to the run up pad. It is also within a few hundred feet of the beginning of the runway, which operations had advised I instruct aircraft on their back taxi to use caution because of the still sloppy conditions. Aircraft X had the current ATIS information. I reviewed the ATIS broadcast. I made a correction to a different taxiway closure. Listening for this correction I did not catch that the taxiway closure for this aircraft was not on the ATIS at the time. I did catch the mistake when I was reviewing the tapes. I listened to most of the ATIS broadcasts from the day, including a special information broadcast when the closures first appear, and taxiway is not listed as being closed on any of the ATIS broadcasts from the day that I reviewed. The Field Condition Report shows the taxiway closed. I recommend a reminder to review ATIS broadcasts, especially during an event that has multiple closures like winter weather. Having another person besides the controller working the position review it will double the chances of catching a mistake. This is a responsibility of the Controller in Charge position and is especially important during the initial closures to ensure that many ATIS broadcasts to follow have complete and correct information. Input into the digital ATIS has to be precise to assure the correct phrase is being transmitted by the computer. For example if you want the digital ATIS to broadcast plural taxiways you must spell out "taxiways" and not use an abbreviation (TWYS). For runway condition code descriptors you have to spell out the word "percent". It helps that there is a section for Taxiway Outages, where you can select individual taxiways. Another recommendation to enhance safety and ensure limited distractions while working aircraft would be to extend the closing shift hours by 10 minutes. Currently the tower closes at midnight and this is when the closing shift ends too. You have to perform closing duty paperwork and review your checklists while the tower is open. Extending just 10 minutes would give ample time to shut down the tower and various equipment, review checklists and do the necessary paperwork without performing these duties while working live traffic. The opening shift begins 15 minutes prior to the tower/TRACON opening. The closing shift should do the same. Narrative: 2
We departed three hours late due to inclement weather. The Operations crew was worked hard to clear the runways to reduce the contamination to allow us to takeoff, since the winds were out of limits for a contaminated runway. There was constant communication between us and Ground Control/Tower, as well as ground operations on the constantly changing runway conditions and wind. Once the runway was cleared to 200/0 snow, we pushed back and deiced, which took nearly an hour. Ground cleared us to taxi, and apparently cleared us to taxi on a closed runway. I don't specifically remember the taxi directions, but with the amount of snowfall that day, there weren't many options, and so I didn't question ground control's directions and thought they had the best situational awareness of the airport. We also took off about 5 minutes before the tower closed, so I'm not sure if this was a factor in the route they gave us or not, but given the field conditions, the route seemed logical. Most of the taxiways were closed due to deep snow. I was notified by the safety review committee that we taxied on a closed runway. With the constantly changing airport conditions, and the operations crew working to clear up the airport, the fact that runway had not been opened was missed. I assumed that ground control had the most up to date picture of the airfield, and didn't question their taxi instructions. We followed the directions we were given. In the future, I will double check with ground control that the current taxi directions are valid, since there had been a previous closure, regardless of the changing conditions. I also won't take for granted that ground control has given valid instructions, despite the fact that they rarely make mistakes. Narrative: 3 Evening departure. We ended up being delayed 3 hours because of runway conditions and a cross wind that exceeded our limitations. Airport facilities were finally able to clear the runway enough to allow us to takeoff. After pushback and deicing we were cleared to "taxi and back taxi runway 5" We started to comply with the instructions. About 2/3 of the way down the runway ground asked us "Do you want to do a one eighty at the end of the runway or do you want to use [taxiway] to turn around?" After telling ground we would like to use [taxiway] we were instructed to "Take [taxiway], to the end of runway The snow was deeper on [taxiway] but I determined that it was still safe to use. We taxied and took off. The rest of the flight was uneventful. We were unaware that we had taxied on a closed taxiway until we were contacted by the safety committee. This event was caused by several human error mistakes. ATC should not have instructed us to taxi on a closed taxiway. As the aircrew we tend to trust ATC but we should have also known which taxiways were closed and backed ATC up. We tried to do this but there were many closures and they were hard to keep track of. I have included a taxi diagram that I used that day. All of the taxiways that are highlighted in green are the ones that I knew to be closed. Taxiway MI is not marked. I'm not sure if this is because I did not copy it down from the ATIS or because it wasn't mentioned in the ATIS to begin with. As I said before, there were a lot of taxiway closures. Synopsis PVD Tower Controller and the flight crew involved reported the crew was approved to use a closed taxiway that was not listed as closed on the ATIS.
Time / Day Date : 201702 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 10000 Environment Flight Conditions : IMC Weather Elements / Visibility : Icing Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Learjet 40 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Descent Airspace.Class E : ZZZ Component Aircraft Component : Pitot-Static System Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1423396 Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly.Deviation - Speed : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight
Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action Result.FIight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 I was assigned PIC on a flight carrying three passengers on a LR 40. The preflight was conducted in accordance with the checklist. Engine start and subsequent cockpit checks did not yield any abnormalities that would cause the flight to be cancelled/delayed. Takeoff, departure, and cruise were uneventful. During our descent we got an Amber EICAS message "Rudder Boost INOP". We ran the appropriate checklist which called for pulling a CB. That tripped off both yaw dampers (YD) and autopilot. The airplane started a roll to the left which I counteracted. The CB was set in accordance with the checklist. YD and AP were re-engaged and everything seemed to work normal again. No EICAS message at that time. A short time thereafter we got the same message again. Simultaneously we received a PRIM PITCH TRIM FAULT (white) and IAS (amber, PFD) message. The airspeed indications were unreliable, differing between both Pilot's PFDs up to 60 KIAS. The IAS on the PF/left side dropped at some point by about 130 K IAS before returning to a "normal" value. At this point, as the indications seemed more "reliable" the controls were transferred to that side. ATC was advised of our situation. While the SIC was flying I monitored the systems available as well as requesting Speed and ALT read outs from ATC (difference between cockpit and ATC was up to 80 KIAS). We were assigned block ALT 5500-7000. As we had no reliable indications with regards to speed I told the SIC to fly by power settings and don't rely on the airspeed tape. To avoid any further distractions I requested to be taken off the arrival and being vectored straight to the ILS. ATC accommodated immediately. We flew the ILS, when handed off to Tower we were advised of our airspeed which was reported to be 110 KIAS while our cockpit instruments indicated 130 KIAS. To be safe PF added a little more power. From what I remember we landed a little faster than Vref but did not exceed any limitations. I am glad that we landed safely. As we had multiple issues to deal with, multiple EICAS messages at the same time, IMC, icing, it became apparent that we had to prioritize. Possible ADC (Air Data Computer) failure took precedent over everything else. No doubt, the decision to [advise ATC]was the best course of action. We were able to focus on the tasks at hand while ATC kept other planes "away" from us. We made it safely on the ground. That's all that matters. No injuries, no damage. The fact that the PF cut off the engines after touchdown instead of engaging the thrust reversers is/was the least of our problems. Clear of the runway we waited for transportation for our passengers who didn't seem to be phased by the events as well as a tug to pull the plane to the facility. After the plane was parked I called Maintenance and the Chief Pilot and advised them of our experience. Consequent Maintenance write ups were filed and submitted. In our case proper training and great CRM made all the difference. Synopsis LR40 Captain reported "Rudder Boost INOP" light illuminated followed by pitch trim and IAS faults, as well as unreliable airspeed indications.
Time / Day Date : 201701 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 8000 Environment Weather Elements / Visibility : Icing Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility Light : Night Ceiling.SingIe Value : 1000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : SR22 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Nav In Use : GPS Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Direct Airspace.Class E : ZZZ Component Aircraft Component : Propeller Ice System Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Failed Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 6100 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 100 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 70
ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1422888 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Flight Crew : Landed As Precaution Result.Flight Crew : Diverted Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 My intent was to stay VFR below the clouds. [Destination] was VFR as were most of the airports on the route. I knew of clouds [enroute] that could produce ice. My intent was to stay below these clouds. Unfortunately I was unable to remain VFR due to rain showers. I activated my IFR flight plan and climbed to 5,000 feet. I turned on the TKS anti-ice. I noticed that we began picking up light to moderate ice. I asked for lower in an attempt to get out of the clouds. ATC said that lower was not available. I was told the tops were somewhere around 8000 to 10000 and that [an airport] about 30 NM north had no reports of ice. I asked to climb in order to get out of the ice. I was given a climb to 10,000 feet or so. Between 8,000 and 9,000 feet I could no longer climb at 90 kts indicated. I [advised ATC] and asked to escape out over the Pacific Ocean. I told ATC that I had synthetic vision and could take responsibility for terrain clearance. [Destination] was reporting 6 degrees C. I was told that I should do an approach to [a nearby alternate]. I was unfamiliar with this airport. I asked for radar vectors to final. ATC said unable and gave me a fix to fly to on the approach. I asked for lower altitude immediately. I think they cleared me to 5,500 feet. I typed the approach into the FMS. I noticed that it was a non-precision approach, with a dog leg, and not a straight in. I asked what length of runway [they] had. They said 5,000 feet. They then said to take down a phone number. I said that I was busy and unable. They then said to switch to UNICOM. I asked for the frequency. On the approach the ice broke off the propeller. Also at around 800 AGL the ice broke off the windscreen so that I could see. I used synthetic vision to align with the runway. I had the passenger read off AGL altitudes. I went missed approach on the first attempt because I was flying at 90 kts and could not make an acceptable turn to final. I decided to land at 90 kts with the flaps up. I made a successful landing on the second attempt. I called Center and told them that we were safe on deck. They told me to squawk VFR. I took the aircraft to maintenance and learned that my propeller de-ice had failed. That explains why I could not climb to VMC and why the windshield iced up. Synopsis SR22 pilot reported diverting to an alternate when he began picking up ice and could not climb out of it because his propeller de-ice system failed.
Time / Day Date : 201702 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 8000 Environment Flight Conditions : IMC Weather Elements / Visibility : Icing Weather Elements / Visibility : Fog Weather Elements / Visibility : Snow Weather Elements / Visibility : Turbulence Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : 6 Ceiling.SingIe Value : 4000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : PC-12 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Climb Route In Use : Direct Airspace.CIass E : ZZZ Component Aircraft Component : Ice/Rain Protection System Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Failed Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 950 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 100
Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 175 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial 1422283 Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 1600 Experience. Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 100 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 800 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1422287 Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Diverted Result.Flight Crew : Landed As Precaution Result.FIight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.FIight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 IFR departure, climbing through 4000 feet MSL on a 040 heading the aircraft encountered IMC flight conditions & light snow. Light to moderate mixed ice began accumulating on the leading edges of both the left and right airfoils. Pneumatic de-ice boots were turned on and began their cycle. Center cleared the aircraft to 9000 feet MSL, direct ZZZ. Upon climbing through 8500 feet MSL the aircraft's Central Advisory and Warning System (CAWS) reported an amber caption denoting a failure of our pneumatic de-ice boots. A visual inspection of the pneumatic boots cycle confirmed the CAWS indication. While in icing conditions both pilots were in agreement to contact Center, request priority handling, in an attempt to exit icing conditions and divert the aircraft to ZZZI. Center cleared the aircraft down to 6000 feet MSL, direct ZZZI. While in the descend to 6000 feet MSL the moderate icing conditions continued. [Center was notified and acknowledged my diversion] request, notified approach, and instructed the radio handoff. Approach cleared the aircraft down to an altitude which was VMC. Within IOnm of ZZZI both pilots confirmed the airport in sight and advised Approach. Approach cleared the aircraft for the visual approach to runway XX. The crew executed a no flap landing as directed per the AFM. ZZZI ground
cleared the aircraft to parking. Upon engine shut down the crew informed all emergency personnel no further assistance was needed. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis PC-12 flight crew reported during climb they encountered ice when an amber caption denoting a failure of the deice system came on.
Time / Day Date : 201701 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Environment Flight Conditions : Marginal Weather Elements / Visibility Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : EC135 : Icing Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Mission : Ambulance Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.Class E : ZZZ Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.FIight Crew : Rotorcraft Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument ASRS Report Number Accession Number : Human Factors : Training / Qualification Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events 1421137 Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Landed As Precaution Result.FIight Crew : Diverted Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Weather Narrative: 1 Human Factors Weather I was on a medical mission with patient on board. The forecast had shown low visibility along the route but nothing lower than four miles. There were several small snow flurries reported in the surrounding area but none along the route. I had checked the TAF [for the airports involved] as well as METARS along the route of flight. I had mentioned to my crew that we would have to stay extra vigilant with regards to low visibility on the flight. I was under NVGs on the flight and after taking off from the referring hospital I referenced the visibility to be greater than ten miles. About twenty five minutes into the flight I began to notice the visibility to be decreasing. I stated to my crew that we had low visibility ahead but was still approximately four miles (referenced by local airfield with lighted beacon and GPS distance). Shortly after the visibility in front was less, while out of my peripheral I could see much greater visibility. I scanned right, then left and estimated a four mile difference in visibility. I thought it may be the windscreen fogging up so I turned on the heating/demist. After a short time it had still not improved. It was at this time I thought something was wrong and flipped my goggles up and turned my lip light on. Instantly I noticed my windscreen was covered in ice! I immediately notified my crew and started a descent while making a radio call to the local airfield of my intent to emergency descend and land. Crew was able to see clearly out of side windows and was vigilantly looking for obstacles. We made a safe landing and notified dispatch via satellite phone. I set the aircraft to idle and placed the friction on the controls to exit. Once outside I noticed the ice on the windscreen was slushy as if starting to melt. I cleared the windscreen and returned to the cockpit. I did not notice any other icing at this time. Once inside we initiated protocol to get the patient to proper care. Dispatch was still looking for a facility to take the patient when I happened to look out my right window and noticed a hospital less than a mile away. We found the hospital in our local landing zone guide and relayed the info to dispatch. Arrangements were made with that hospital and we were requested to re position to their helipad if possible. We had been sitting at idle for about twenty minutes and ceilings were higher than previously per weather station. The area was well lit from ground lights and I was able to clearly see the hospital and the cloud levels. Conditions had changed enough so a decision was made to relocate to the hospital. Once landed on the pad, I assisted the crew down into the hospital. I returned to the aircraft about an hour after landing and inspected the aircraft. It was at this time I noticed the icing on the blades. I contacted Operations to discuss the situation and possible relocation of the aircraft. The process of running the helicopter on the ground for a short time to try to loosen and shed the ice on the blades, then shutting down and inspecting the blades was discussed. It was stated that if there was no ice found and icing conditions did not exist I could possibly relocate the aircraft to the airfield. I checked in with the crew to get an update on future logistics then returned to the aircraft about forty minutes later. At this time I went to proceed with the ground run and noticed the conditions had worsened. The helicopter had accumulated more ice on the structure and the blades and I witnessed rain freezing on contact to the windscreen. I referenced conditions at the airfield once again to find conditions subject to freezing fog and drizzle. I cannot say I have any suggestions on how to avoid flying into that situation. Of course hindsight is only great for learning from a situation but isn't present at the time of an event, but I would say I would not re position to the hospital without full shut down and complete post flight inspection if there was a chance to do it again. But at the time I used
the information available to me and deemed the weather to have improved enough to proceed to the hospital. Synopsis Helicopter pilot reported encountering icing conditions and landed at the nearest airport.
Time / Day Date : 201701 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 4000 Environment Flight Conditions : IMC Weather Elements / Visibility Weather Elements / Visibility Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 2800 Aircraft Reference : X : Cloudy : Icing ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : SR20 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Climb Route In Use : Vectors Airspace.Class E : ZZZ Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 490 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 162 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 490 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1420704 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight
Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I landed just 10 minutes previous to departing. Was on an IFR flight plan. Had scattered clouds with only 500 ft thickness. No issues for ice or anything. I filed plan out at 5000, figuring the conditions were the same. This is even though there was a Zulu forecast for the area from surface to 16000 ft. Weather was broken 2,800 and I figured tops were the same around 4000. Flight was great and started encountering clouds around 3,200 and then it closed in to 1000/0 IMC. Was on autopilot and focused on temp and wings/icing. Around 4000 1 encountered clear that turned to rime. As I continued to 5000 "assigned IFR". It built up to around 1/4 inch then requested 7000 as for I could see the breakout. At 5500 1 broke out in VFR on top and was clear. I made a pilot report of the conditions and continued on. The ice shed via sublimation along route. Part way through I found hole in clouds and descended VFR below to prevent any more icing conditions. Flight landed safely. Next time will adjust for last minute weather conditions. Synopsis SR20 pilot reported departing with the assumption weather would remain the same as the arrival, but ice accumulated unexpectedly during climb.
Time / Day Date : 201701 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 1100 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : J3 Cub Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.CIass E : ZZZ Component : 1 Aircraft Component : Carburetor Heat Control Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Improperly Operated Component : 2 Aircraft Component : Engine Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 1001
Experience.Flight Crew. Last 90 Days : 86 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 182 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1419839 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.Flight Crew : Overcame Equipment Problem Result.Flight Crew : Diverted Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I was on a multi-day trip flying a Piper 33 Cub [when] I experienced some momentary engine roughness. Not thinking much of it as it the RPM drop was very slight with power returning to normal, I continued en route. [Later] the engine began to run noticeably rougher with a loss of power. At that point, I applied carb heat and did a mag check. The engine continued to run rough with a loss of power that resulted in me having to continue to advance the throttle to maintain cruise power. As I was currently getting flight following from [ATC] I informed them of my engine issues. I made a straight in to landing on [a suitable alternate]. Once over the threshold I pulled the power back to idle. At that point, the engine quit just as the wheels touched down for a safe landing. Upon inspection, it was discovered that the carburetor was wet. I made calls to my A&P, the previous owner of the aircraft as well as to a fellow CFI to discuss the event. We all agreed that given current close temperature/dew point spread, how the engine loss power, and the visible moisture seen on the carburetor after landing that carb ice was the likely cause. After about an hour on the ground, I departed. Before continuing on route, I circled over the field for a good 15 minutes to confirm that the engine was generating the proper power during climb, cruise and at idle. After I was confident that the engine and carburetor were operating normally, I continued to my next destination. For the remainder of the trip I operated with partial and full carburetor heat during all phases of flight. The remaining flights continued without incident. Upon reflection I should have applied carburetor heat at the first sign of engine roughness. This would have likely gotten ahead of the carburetor ice. I knew that 33 Cubs can be susceptible to carb icing while taxiing and during other low engine RPM conditions. As I was running at cruise power for extend periods, the possibility of carb ice didn't become apparent until there was significant engine roughness. Having left two days prior, operating in warmer and drier weather without incident, I was complacent with regard to the possibility of carburetor icing. While I checked the weather prior to the flight, I did not factor in the close temperature/dew point spread ([destination airport] was reporting a
temp/dew point of 08/06 with clear skies) which would have told me to periodically engage carburetor heat as a precautionary action. In addition, as I was making a long, multi-day flight, I feel my attention was skewed toward making my daily checkpoints so that I may make each day's distance goals. Synopsis Piper 33 pilot reported diverting to an alternate airport after his engine began running rough, which was later traced to carburetor Ice.
Time / Day Date : 201701 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 300 Environment Flight Conditions : Marginal Weather Elements / Visibility : Snow Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 400 Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi : 0.75 Make Model Name : Eurocopter AS 350/355/EC130 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Ferry Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Direct Airspace.CIass G : ZZZ Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Rotorcraft Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Experience.FIight Crew. Total : 2582 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 84 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 886 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1419587 Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi - Astar/Twinstar/Ecureuil
Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Rotorcraft Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 700 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 25 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 550 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1419588 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : VFR In IMC Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Landed As Precaution Result.FIight Crew : Diverted Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Weather Narrative: 1 While enroute the PIC and myself had checked the weather before leaving finding favorable conditions. As the flight progressed the weather started to deteriorate. The airport and real time DUATS was reporting marginal VFR conditions and while attempting to find the lowest terrain towards [our destination] we encountered decreasing visibility and simultaneous windshield snow buildup. As a precaution the PIC decided to make an unplanned landing in the first available clearing where a safe, normal landing could be made. Once the weather cleared and the windshield was cleared and the aircraft was inspected for icing, the flight was continued as planned. I believe a possible preventative action could be for the placement of a weather station elsewhere in the valley seeing as the airport is in one of the most unique locations of all airports in existence and as such may not provide relevant information to helicopters flying in less than perfect VFR conditions. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis AS350 pilots reported landing in an open field when a VFR flight encountered IMC. After the snow shower had passed, the flight continued to their destination.
Time / Day Date : 201701 Local Time Of Day : 0001-0600 Place Locale Reference.Airport : RNO.Airport State Reference : CA Relative Position. Distance. Nautical Miles : 10 Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 9000 Environment Flight Conditions : Marginal Weather Elements / Visibility : Cloudy Weather Elements / Visibility.VisibiIity • Light : Night Ceiling.Single Value : 1200 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : NCT Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Citation 11 S2/Bravo (C550) Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Ferry Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use : Vectors Airspace.CIass E : NCT Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification.FIight Crew : Flight Engineer Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 23039 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 60 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 254 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1418186 Human Factors : Human-Machine Interface Human Factors : Fatigue Human Factors : Distraction
Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (AT P) Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 5400 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 30 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 120 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1418194 Human Factors : Human-Machine Interface Human Factors : Distraction Events Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Overshoot Anomaly Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.Flight Crew : FLC Overrode Automation Result.FIight Crew : Returned To Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I was the co-pilot and flying pilot with no passengers. This was the third mission in this airplane and unlike the usual aircraft I fly this one has a glass cockpit with the Mode Control Panel in front of the Captain. We had worked together very well as a crew with excellent CRM. We were descending to land at RNO where the weather was about 1200 overcast with tops about 8000 ft and because of the temperature, icing was expected, level unknown. The autopilot was engaged. I had briefed the approach and we completed the appropriate checklists. We were getting step down descents and when we were cleared from 10000 to 9000 ft. I saw the captain select 9000 in the altitude preselect window but failed to notice the arm button was not pushed. I had just called for engine anti-ice to be turned on and we were discussing when to turn on the wing anti-ice. Then I noticed the airplane going through 8700 ft. I immediately disconnected the autopilot and started a climb back to 9000. Just as the airplane started climbing ATC announced "stop your descent." We received further vectors and descents and accomplished the approach, landing in RNO. Contributing factors were I had little time on this glass panel airplane, night flight, IFR weather ahead with possible icing and busy time of flight. We lost situational awareness and my inaction was not confirming autopilot status and reliance on automation.
Narrative: 2 Prior to descent, all appropriate checklists/briefs were complete in accordance with sops. PF was descending to assigned altitude of 10,000 ft. Pilots entered brief conversation about cloud deck, thickness and potential icing. Decision was made to turn anti-ice on (anti-ice switches accessed from left seat) PNF moved to select A1 switches "ON." Concurrently, ATC directed a descent from 10,000 to 9,000 just prior to PF reaching 10,000 (SOP calls for PNF to select/reset alt preselect controller to new alt (9,000) and select ALT ARM this is to be announced and subsequently acknowledge by PF). Upon receipt of ATC instructions, PNF selected 9,000 in Alt pre-select window. Announced "Pilot, cleared to 9,000." PNF failed to select ARM as attention went back to verifying proper anti- Ice controls were in place. Acknowledgment of "preselects" did not occur. Passing through 8800, PF recognized AP failed to capture preselected altitude of 9,000. PF interrupted AP and started a smooth climb (night IMC conditions at this time) back to 9,000. In process of maneuvering, the aircraft descended to 8700. During climb back to 9,000 ATC directed "Stop descent. " During climb back to altitude, ATC directed subsequent vector and descent to intercept the LOC with clearance for approach. Subsequent approach was uneventful. ROOT CAUSE: Failure to follow SOP. CAUSAL FACTORS: Distraction due to environmental factors; Crew fatigue, early morning hours, PF completed early morning sortie the day prior. Although it was the fourth leg of mission the PNF had not flown in 17 days. Synopsis C550 pilots reported incorrectly setting their altitude during a descent to RNO resulting in overshooting their assigned altitude.
Time / Day Date : 201701 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZOA.ARTCC State Reference : CA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 16000 Environment Weather Elements / Visibility : Turbulence Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZOA Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Small Aircraft, Low Wing, 1 Eng, Retractable Gear Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass E : ZOA Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Facility : ZOA.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Enroute Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control.Time Certified In Pos 1 (yrs) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1417942 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Training / Qualification Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types : 3.3 Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Excursion From Assigned Altitude Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.FIight Crew : Regained Aircraft Control Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 This IS a situation that I witnessed, and do not think a [report] was filed. I feel it pertinent to bring up. Aircraft X was flying at the lowest assignable attitude (16000 feet) over the Sierra Nevada. The Minimum IFR Altitude (MIA) in that area is 15200 feet. The aircraft experienced serious downdrafts, and lost over 1200 feet of altitude in only 2-3 radar returns. The aircraft asked for help, and the controller working the sector initially responded with "you're below my MIA, I can't vector you below the MIA." The controller asked if he was getting icing, but the pilot said negative. When he finally gave suggested headings, the controller was saying things like maybe this heading or maybe that heading. Nothing concrete that would invoke any sort of confidence in the pilot. I feel that the controller did a terrible job helping the pilot. He did not issue a low altitude alert or even find out if he was IMC until 10 minutes after the issue started. It took another controller to make him ask the pilot if he was IMC, and issue a safety alert. The controller gave a much better service to another aircraft that was not in an emergency situation than he gave this aircraft. When the Operations Manager came in the area he asked if the pilot was getting carb icing (a very good question), and the controllers response was "he is not getting icing." The controller NEVER asked the pilot if he was getting carb icing. While this was probably not a contributing factor, this was pertinent information that could have helped the pilot get more power out of his engine. This particular controller has many difficulties working normal traffic, and a situation like this put him over the edge. This was a very unsafe situation, and I feel that if the pilot had not kept his cool he may have crashed. I feel that situations like these, that do not show up as a loss of separation, airspace violation, or incident are not looked at very seriously at our facility. Management filed an incident report but it was very vague and did not properly narrate the situation. I don't even think management listened to the tape. I do not want someone to be penalized, but I think we need to engage this controller, and offer him more training on these types of situations. In fact, every controller, including myself should be "called out" if they do not provide enough service to an aircraft in need. We do run simulations with scenarios like this during our "recovery" training, but I feel this exact situation should be re-created. We need to focus on all safety issues, not just separation loss or airspace violations. Synopsis ZOA Controller reported observing another Controller work an aircraft in downdrafts over mountains, but did not handle the situation according to standards.
Time / Day Date : 201701 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZDC.ARTCC State Reference : VA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 10000 Environment Flight Conditions : Mixed Weather Elements / Visibility : Cloudy Weather Elements / Visibility : Turbulence Weather Elements / Visibility.VisibiIity : 10 Light : Daylight Ceiling.Single Value : 8800 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZDC Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : PA-28 Cherokee/Archer/Dakota/PiIIan/Warrior Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use.Airway : V 143 Airspace.CIass E : ZDC Component Aircraft Component : Engine Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.Flight Crew : Instructor Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Engineer Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 17000 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 5
Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 250 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1417678 Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Troubleshooting Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Private Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 200 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 25 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 10 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number • 1417679 Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Troubleshooting Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Excursion From Assigned Altitude Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Flight Crew Were Passengers Involved In Event : N When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Flight Crew : Overcame Equipment Problem Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 Filed for 8,000 ft but was getting bounced around. Asked for 10,000 ft and was cleared for climb to 10,000 ft. We were shimming through the tops with clear above. Reported level at 10,000 ft to Washington Center. Within a couple of minutes we began to lose power and started to lose altitude. At about a 200 ft loss, immediately asked ATC for lower, ATC responded by standby. Applied carb heat twice. At 9,600 ft Washington advised "he showed us at 9,600 ft and gave an altimeter setting." Asked again for lower and ATC gave us 9,000 ft. We complied and once again had a hard time staying at 9,000 ft. I asked for 6,000 ft and was cleared for 6,000 ft. During entire descent had carb heat on. We leveled off at 6,000 ft and all power was restored. We continued to destination with no further problems noted. Mistakes made: should have had carb heat on longer and should have told ATC of problem, but was distracted by trying to hold altitude and figure out what was wrong. At
first I thought it was a cable problem with throttle. Probably should have declared an emergency. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis PA28 pilots reported experiencing carburetor icing at 10,000 feet. Their engine began to lose power, so they applied carb heat and descended to 6,000 feet. During the descent they regained full power and continued.
Time / Day Date : 201701 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : FDY.Airport State Reference : OH Relative Position. Distance. Nautical Miles Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 2300 Environment Flight Conditions : IMC Weather Elements / Visibility : Rain Weather Elements / Visibility.VisibiIity : Light : Dawn Ceiling.Single Value : 1200 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : TOL Aircraft Operator : Personal 10 Make Model Name : Small Aircraft, Low Wing, I Eng, Retractable Gear Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Training Nav In Use : GPS Flight Phase : Final Approach Route In Use : Vectors Airspace. Class G : FDY Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 3242 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 35 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 600 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1417583 Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Situational Awareness
Confusion Human Factors : Human Factors : Distraction Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Detector. Person : Flight Crew Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.Flight Crew : Executed Go Around / Missed Approach Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 Airport Environment - Non Weather Related Human Factors Procedure Flight originated from AOH for the purpose of logging IFR approaches in actual conditions and to satisfy future instrument currency requirements. Void time clearance was received by radio on ground from Indianapolis Center. After departure turned towards FDY and established airborne communication with Indy Center above 2500 feet MSL. Radar contact not possible in this area below 4000 MSL but unable to go higher than 3000 due to temperature and possible icing conditions. Center asked for position reports to determine when to hand off to Toledo approach. It seemed the handoff was late as the controller was busy with a lot of traffic. After handoff and checking in with Toledo on 120.8mhz there was a question if I was read my full clearance. I answered yes and was not given an explanation. Controller seemed unhappy. I requested as I had filed for. Direct KASPE intersection and the GPS 36 approach with course reversal at KASPE. Once established on the approach I let them know I intended to make a second RNAV 36 approach then return to AOH. The first approach was normal and I broke out below the overcast as expected, located the runway environment and made a touch and go. On climb out to 3000 feet contacted Toledo again and agreed on Radar Vectors for the second approach. The vector was excellent and I intercepted the inbound course between KASPI and FABKI still at 3000 feet. LPV was confirmed on the GPS and glide slope intercept normal. I was cleared to change to advisory frequency but had not yet. Still in IMC at about 2300 MSL I received a radio call from Toledo reporting a Low Altitude Alert. The Approach was stabilized, the needles were both crossed within the center circle (donut) and it was a mystery to me what was causing the alert. I chose to abort the approach then was cleared to return to AOH at 3000 feet without further incident. Later that evening I loaded the track log in Google earth for further review and did not see any remarkable indication of being below the glide path on the second approach. Upon speaking with another pilot who operates in Toledo airspace I am told this has happened to him more than once. I am beginning to wonder if the limits they are setting for alerts on these approaches are too narrow or restrictive. Toledo approach control has
consistently given stellar, friendly and professional handling in all types of weather conditions, training flights and passing through the area or landing. They go above and beyond for student pilots too. In no way do I wish for any of the statements above to reflect negatively. Synopsis A pilot conducting practice approaches to FDY Runway 36 in IMC at 2,300 FT, reported being issued a low altitude alert even though the GPS and glideslope appeared normal. The pilot executed a precautionary go-around, but later could find no cause for the alert.
Time / Day Date : 201701 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : BIL.Airport State Reference : MT Relative Position. Distance. Nautical Miles : 30 Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 1000 Environment Flight Conditions : IMC Weather Elements / Visibility Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : BIL Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi : Icing Make Model Name : Cessna Twin Piston Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Ferry Flight Phase : Descent Component Aircraft Component : Ice/Rain Protection System Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1416984 Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Other Person Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate When Detected : In-flight
Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action Result.FIight Crew : Overcame Equipment Problem Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Ambiguous Narrative: 1 While flying back from an unsuccessful maintenance reposition flight [we] experienced severe icing. It was not known the level of icing until we were on the ground. The icing charts/forecast did not have severe or moderate icing forecast for our route of flight. We were IMC for almost the entire flight and did not begin to pick up any ice until roughly 30 miles from (destination). When we began to encounter icing all of the Anti-lcing equipment was already on and the boots had not been used yet. We noticed a line Of white on the leading edge during descent and I decided to blow the boots on the base leg once it appeared to accumulate enough on the wing. The boots inflated but the ice did not depart the leading edge of the wing. Our thought was that it must not have been enough on the wing for it to have broken. At this time we had not heard any ice being shed from the propellers. When I put the gear down on the ILS approach and moved the props forward it sounded as if a shotgun was being fired rapidly. That was the ice coming off the props and hitting the side of the nose. We were in the clouds after putting the gear down for about 1000 more feet and landed normally. We knew we had ice on the airplane and I was planning on going right back out. As we were parking, [another employee] was walking to his plane and waited for us to park, when he saw our wing and I saw his reaction, I knew that we had carried significantly more ice in than we thought. When I inspected the plane afterwards I decided to not go back out that evening. The plane was re-positioned to the hangar and when maintenance saw it, started testing the anti/de-ice equipment. They asked if we were going to write the plane up and I said no because we had indications that everything was working normally. Synopsis Cessna twin engine aircraft pilot reported accumulating significant ice during flight with a great deal present after landing.
Time / Day Date : 201701 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : EMB ERJ 145 ER/LR Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Ferry Flight Phase : Takeoff Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1416600 Human Factors : Training / Qualification Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Smoke / Fire / Fumes / Odor Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action Result. General : Flight Cancelled / Delayed Result.Flight Crew : Returned To Gate Result.FIight Crew : Rejected Takeoff Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Primary Problem : Aircraft
Narrative: 1 We were tasked with ferrying aircraft as engine I had oil consumption issues. My FO and I arrived at the hangar for the ferry flight, took possession of the ferry permit paperwork, reviewed the AML and then went out to the aircraft. During the preflight check I made a note that engine I oil quantity was 10 qts and engine 2 was at 13 qts. We also noted that the aircraft had snow and frost all over so, after preflight and departure paperwork completion we set about to get the aircraft de-iced. We were informed that we would need to taxi the aircraft to Gate XX for de-icing. After completion of preflight checks and the before start and engine start checklists, we elected to start both engines for the taxi from the hangar to Gate XX. This would allow both engines to begin warming up and give us a chance to monitor engine 1 for oil consumption. After engine start, engine 1 oil quantity would fluctuate from 10 qts to 9 qts and back but never indicated below 9 qts. Engine 2 oil quantity remained at 13 qts the entire time. Taxied to Gate XX both engines warmed up to +40C oil temp normally and all engine indications remained in the green range during the taxi and the deicing procedure which was accomplished at the gate with engine I at idle and engine 2 off. After de-icing we departed Gate XX and taxied out to the runway. All engine Indications remained in the green range and engine 2 returned to normal operating oil temp and we prepared for takeoff. During the takeoff roll my FO noticed an odd smell and then around 80 KIAS to 90 KIAS we both saw and smelled the flight deck filling with smoke. My FO called the abort as I was beginning the abort procedure at somewhere around 95 KIAS to 100 KIAS. We aborted the takeoff and exited the runway and stopped the aircraft on the taxiway. We ran the "Cabin or Cockpit Fire/Smoke/Fumes" EPC checklist and secured engine I as we thought that would most likely be the source of the problem. By the time we exited the runway the smoke was already starting to dissipate. Despite the high speed abort, both brake temp indicators on the MFD remained in the green range and we received no EICAS messages of any kind. As we were exiting the runway, tower asked if we required assistance and we told them yes. They sent Crash Fire Rescue out to us and, even though we did not get a chance to declare an emergency, we figured it was no longer necessary to do so since the tower had already contacted CFR for us. CFR came out to the aircraft, and asked us to secure engine 2. We started the APU and shut down engine 2. Once both engines were off, CFR performed an exterior and interior check and found no evidence of a fire. After conferring with Operations, Maintenance Control, and local maintenance who had now come out to the aircraft, we restarted engine 2 and taxied the aircraft from the taxiway to the hangar without incident and with CFR following us the entire way. At the hangar, we returned the aircraft to ZZZ maintenance. Engine 1 oil quantity was still at 10 qts when we left the aircraft for the night and all of the EICAS engine indications were normal and in the green range throughout the entire event and all the way to shut down. Synopsis EMB-145 Captain reported rejecting the takeoff after detecting an unusual smell followed by smoke in the flight deck.
Time / Day Date : 201701 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 6000 Environment Flight Conditions : IMC Weather Elements / Visibility Weather Elements / Visibility Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi : Icing : Turbulence Make Model Name : PA-31 Navajo/Chieftan/Mojave/T1040 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : IFR Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass E : ZZZ Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1414100 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.Deviation - Track / Heading : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Flight Crew Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Weather Narrative: 1 Human Factors Weather I [advised ATC of the situation] due to severe icing while in cruise to my destination airport. I was level at 7,000 feet when I first started building ice and requested a lower altitude of 6,000 feet. A few minutes after leveling off at 6,000 feet I noticed my airspeed continuously dropping and was no longer within range of radio communication with ATC to request a lower altitude. At which point I started relaying through a company pilot. I requested a different altitude and heading to turn south of the mountainous terrain I was flying over. After turning south I was unable to reach ATC and was not receiving the relay clearly from company aircraft, this was when I squawked 7700 and began to descend to VMC conditions. I turned south for two reasons, first I know the terrain is lower to the south of the mountains, secondly ZZZ was broadcasting VFR conditions and I knew that I would be able to shed the ice if I was able to get lower. At this point I was barely able to hold 120 knots and was not able to shed the ice. [Company aircraft] relayed to me that I had been cleared for the approach, and once I was able to clearly hear them I put in my old squawk code and proceeded. At this point my sole focus was on maintaining airspeed and altitude as I was able. I descended to 2500 feet and was still in severe icing and now moderate turbulence, at which point my stall horn chirped a couple times. After turning inbound and descending to 1700 feet the ice shed off. Once level at 1700 feet and in VMC conditions with the runway in sight I could confirm that the ice had shed off of my wings and I was able to maintain 140 knots and greater. At which point I canceled IFR and squawked 1200 to continue to [original destination]. The ceiling was reported at 2600 feet, there was no way I was going to climb back into the clouds. I maintained 1,500 feet until I was certain that I could maintain altitude and airspeed before climbing back up to 2,500 feet. I did this for three reasons. First, I could see my surrounds and knew I was in no danger of hitting anything, secondly I didn't want to start climbing until I was sure the aircraft was clear of ice before getting close to another layer, thirdly, the runway was reported as hazardous due to icing. After safely landing I called ATC to explain what happened, even though I was not requested to. Their only concern was why I continued from [my alternate to my original destination]. After explaining, they agreed with me and we were in agreement that I did the safest option for the circumstances I had. Throughout this whole ordeal there were times when I was unable to hold altitudes without drastically losing airspeed and would have to give up altitude to gain back airspeed, plus I was not in contact with ATC and was being relayed through company aircraft. So I am not sure if I was in violation of anything at the time of the emergency, but firmly believe I responded to the situation with the best of my ability. Synopsis PA31 pilot reported having difficulty maintaining altitude and airspeed in icing conditions.
Time / Day Date : 201612 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Relative Position. Distance. Nautical Miles : Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 2500 Environment Flight Conditions : IMC Weather Elements / Visibility : Icing Weather Elements / Visibility.VisibiIity Light : Daylight Ceiling.Single Value : 500 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : SR22 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Initial Climb Route In Use : Direct Airspace.Class E : ZZZ Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 2248 5 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 88 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 1012 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1412187 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Flight Crew
When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : Flight Cancelled / Delayed Result.Flight Crew : Landed As Precaution Result.FIight Crew : Returned To Departure Airport Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Weather Narrative: 1 I was PIC on a part 91 flight from a small airport and encountered unexpected icing shortly after takeoff. I was planning a 75 nm flight to base in an SR22 FIKI (Flight Into Known Icing) airplane. I am current in IFR procedures and FIKI training. I have 1000 hours in the SR22 about 88 total in the last 90 days. An hour and a half before departure I called the home base Tower to ask about runway conditions, it was reported as good with traffic indicating no problems. An hour before departure, I called the home base FBO and asked about updated runway conditions and they were reported as good with aircraft landing without problems or reports of icing problems. I checked Foreflight throughout the afternoon for current conditions and advisories. The local conditions were similar but it appeared that they were letting up. There was an icing advisory for moderate icing but the current conditions at the airport were reported as mist, calm winds, 500 ft ceiling and below freezing temperatures. I knew a warm front from the south was causing the freezing rain, but there was now no longer any freezing rain. At the airport, I examined the main runway and found no ice on the runway. I confirmed that the METAR was accurate, and that there was not any freezing rain at the time. I deiced the plane, then let it warm up and got IFR clearance. I turned on the TKS anti-icing system to high. I took off and after an uneventful takeoff roll was airborne. At 1000 ft AGL, I saw evidence of ice buildup on the leading edges. I turned the icing system to max. My climb performance was clearly degraded from the usual 1000-1200 fpm to 500 fpm. I made the decision at 1500 AGL to return to land. I asked for immediate vectors to the GPS on the reciprocal runway. The ATC controller asked why and I told him that I was encountering ice. I accepted vectors for the GPS approach and was on glidepath soon. Since I was concerned about icing and the reduced climb performance I did not reduce power until the field was in sight. At this point the anti-icing had done its work and performance was normal, so I went around and lined up again with vectors for the reciprocal GPS. I was soon on glidepath and recognized this time that the airplane's performance was normal. I decreased power and airspeed and made an uneventful landing. The total time in the air was 13 minutes. After encountering worsening conditions 1000 ft AGL, I believe it was correct to immediately return. Most important was making a poor decision to takeoff when I had the ability to go by car. I think if I had spent more time looking at conditions at additional local airports I would likely have seen a pattern of cancellations which would have changed my plan. I normally review weather data and charts myself on the internet, but I would have been well served to call Flight Service for a weather advisory. I believe if I had done this I would have canceled the flight. This is something I certainly intend to do in the future when the conditions are marginal.
Synopsis SR22 pilot reported he returned to the departure airport after encountering icing conditions in the initial climb.
Time / Day Date : 201612 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 2500 Environment Flight Conditions : IMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 1200 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Corporate Make Model Name : MU-2B 60 Marquise Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Ferry Flight Phase : Initial Climb Route In Use : Vectors Airspace.CIass C : ZZZ Component Aircraft Component : Circuit Breaker / Fuse / Thermocouple Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Improperly Operated Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Corporate Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 3300 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 4 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 600 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : Human Factors : Other / Unknown 1412166
Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Smoke / Fire / Fumes / Odor Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Maintenance Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result. General : Maintenance Action Result.Flight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Result.FIight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Flight Crew : Returned To Departure Airport Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I had just picked up the airplane from maintenance. While it was in the shop, per normal procedures certain circuit breakers are pulled, including the air conditioning CB (the maintenance was unrelated to the air conditioner). Although they pushed the CB back in, it was not fully seated. This caused hot bleed air to come through the lines, igniting the residual engine oil in those lines. This caused smoke to enter the cabin. This occurred on initial climbout during the handoff from tower to approach. I informed approach of the situation and was provided vectors for the ILS approach, after which I landed without incident. ARFF responded, but there was nothing for them to do. The approach and tower controllers, and ARFF, all did an excellent job. Contributing to this occurrence was the fact that because of the low altitude, there had not yet been an opportunity for much cabin differential pressure to build up, so the normal procedures for clearing smoke from the cockpit (selecting RAM air, opening the pilot's storm door, etc.) were of little help. Fortunately the entire event only lasted about 5-6 minutes, so I was able to get the plane back on the ground before visibility of the flight instruments became a serious issue. After I landed, maintenance reset the CB, tested the system, and I proceeded back to base about an hour later without further incident. Synopsis MIJ2B-60 pilot reported that an improperly reset air conditioning circuit breaker caused smoke to enter the cabin.
Time / Day Date : 201612 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZLA.ARTCC State Reference : CA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 10000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility : Icing Weather Elements / Visibility : Rain Weather Elements / Visibility.VisibiIity : Light : Daylight Ceiling.Single Value : 5000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZLA Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : SR20 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Personal Nav In Use : GPS Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use.Airway : V386 Airspace.CIass E : ZLA Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 2200 10 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 25 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 1400 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1411504 : Communication Breakdown Human Factors Human Factors : Situational Awareness Troubleshooting Human Factors : : Confusion Human Factors
Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown. Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Chart Or Publication Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Manuals Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Weather Narrative: 1 The MOCA on V386 southeast of SOGGI is 9,400 ft, and ATC denied this altitude on request of pilot. Initially, ATC demanded 11,000 ft which would have meant certain icing, but later allowed 10,000 ft as this was their MVA. This FAA manual is outdated: https://www.faa.gov/regulations_policies/handbooks_manuals/aviation/instrument_proced ures_handbook/media/FAA-H-8083-16.pdf Page 2-35 incorrectly states, "If both a MEA and a MOCA are prescribed for a particular route or route segment, pilots may operate an aircraft below the MEA down to, but not below, the MOCA, only when within 22 NM of the VOR." The more correct authority is FAR 91.177(a), "The applicable minimum altitudes prescribed in parts 95 and 97 of this chapter. However, if both a MEA and a MOCA are prescribed for a particular route or route segment, a person may operate an aircraft below the MEA down to, but not below, the MOCA, provided the applicable navigation signals are available. For aircraft using VOR for navigation, this applies only when the aircraft is within 22 nautical miles of that VOR (based on the reasonable estimate by the pilot operating the aircraft of that distance). " In other words, if a pilot of a GPS equipped aircraft requests a MOCA to avoid icing above, ATC should not force the pilot up to the MEA and into the icing. Synopsis SR20 pilot reported that ATC did not let him use the MOCA altitude that was published on his route. Pilot wanted to be lower to get out of possible icing conditions.
Time / Day Date : 201612 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 11100 Environment Flight Conditions : Mixed Weather Elements / Visibility : Icing Weather Elements / Visibility : Snow Weather Elements / Visibility.VisibiIity : Light : Daylight Ceiling.Single Value : 11000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal 10 Make Model Name : Skyhawk 172/CutIass 172 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Ferry Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Direct Airspace.Class E : ZZZ Component Aircraft Component : Fuel Tank Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Improperly Operated Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Experience.Flight Crew. Total : 1250 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 140 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 640
ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1411249 Communication Breakdown Human Factors : : Confusion Human Factors Human Factors : Fatigue Human Factors : Physiological - Other Situational Awareness Human Factors : Human Factors : Time Pressure : Training / Qualification Human Factors Human Factors : Distraction Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Other Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Illness Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Anomaly.Ground Excursion : Taxiway Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : Physical Injury / Incapacitation Result.GeneraI : Evacuated Result.Flight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Result.Air Traffic Control : Separated Traffic Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Equipment / Tooling Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Contributing Factors / Situations : Manuals Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I had received a message a day before from a friend asking if I wanted to make money for a ferry trip. With not much going on for the time being and interested in new experiences, I told him to send more details. The opportunity was to ferry the 172s to Europe. I came in contact with the owner and over dinner, he seemed as it was revolved around business and insisting I do the trip for him listing all the positives about the adventure. The previous pilot who was supposed to conduct the trip had to cancel due to family issues and he needed a pilot last minute. I was still skeptical and knew about the risks and asked various questions about the ordeal, but the owner reassured that with my experience I would be fine. I gave in and agreed to do the trip for him. He told me to meet him at the FBO the next morning. Anxious as I was with little sleep, I did show up. He gave me a packet with all the details and told me I could read it in the plane when I get to cruise. Before I took off, he wanted to speak to me about the ferry tank and how to operate it. The tank held 100 gallons of avgas along with the 53 usable in the wings. Takeoff and landing on wing tanks only and when I got up to cruise, burn off 1/3 of the left wing and then open the ferry tank valve
and pull the fuel shut off valve on. The ferry tank will refuel the left wing. I filed an IFR flight plan, briefly looked at the weather, and conducted a preflight in an attempt to hurry since it was planned to be an 11-12 hour flight. My plan was that I was going to read the weather briefing in cruise in attempt to save time. The flight was planned from ZZZ to [the northeast coast] at 9,000 feet, with the first 7 hours going well. The smooth and VMC conditions calmed my nerves for what I was about to do. Winds were in my favor which expected to cut down on flight time. With previous altitude chamber training, I realized that I started to become mildly hypoxic. My mind was very sluggish and confused. Everything just snowballed from there. My decision was to descend to a lower altitude. I had noticed that when I was approaching the Great Lakes region, "lake effect snow" was forming. At the time with my inexperience with the area, I had never heard Of that term. I started to feel uncomfortable and needed to do everything to get out of possible icing conditions. I spoke with each ART CC handling me if they could provide me with updates on weather enroute to my destination. He advised there was no one else flying in my area and information was limited. I also spoke with FSS. He had reported that top were at 10,000 feet and freezing temperatures were at the surface. My poor judgment told me to get out of the snow and climb above to be VFR on top. I slowly made my way up there. I started to notice my speed decreasing in the climb and in the cloud layer my plane was starting to accumulate a thin layer of clear ice. I was terrified at this point, I prayed I would just break out of top already. Center asked if I was on top yet and I replied "no", finally at 11,000 feet, I saw light. For only a minute after leveling off at that altitude, my engine started to sputter. Without thinking and muttering, I chimed to Center and [informed them of my situation]. Unsure of my call for distress, the lead controller asked me to repeat. My engine started again and I was confused, I told him never mind. Big mistake. My engine then proceeded to lose power and from there I did confirm that I [did have an] engine failure. I had no success in restarting the engine. ARTCC had advised that I had [an airport] to my east for landing and they were to pause all departures and arrivals for me. He then handed me off to Tower Control in which he was giving me vectors for any runway. Luckily, I had a lot of altitude to work with. Tailwinds at the time were strong out of the west so I told him I would like Runway XX. carried my speed quicker and realized I would pick up more ice in the descent. As I remember, the controller vectored me for a wide left pattern for the runway until I broke out of the clouds with a 3 mile final. Under stress, I came in high on the glideslope and without thinking used my second notch of flaps. I then came to realize that I was encountering a strong headwind so I took out my flaps. I was going to be low on Runway XX and knew if I was going to continue I would hit the Approach Lighting System (ALS). So at the last second, I veered right in an attempt to land on the taxiway. I touched down in the grass a few feet short of the pavement which sprung me up onto the taxiway. The aircraft then slowed to a complete stop and emergency vehicles moved in. They saw fuel draining out of my fuel vent and said I needed to get away from the plane. After receiving medical attention, I had reported to the responders that I felt very short of breath and they gave me supplemental oxygen. It took me nearly 24 hours for me to finally recover to breath normally. Although my pulse calmed down, I was still feeling the symptoms of hypoxia. They took me and towed my aircraft to the FBO. At the time I was very confused on why I lost the engine. I sat there had thought about possible reasons on why it occurred. I spoke with the owner and another pilot who occasionally does the trips. They told me they suspected icing which blocked the air filter. They also said they were curious to see if the aircraft would start up again. I told him I would try whenever I had the chance in an attempt to find the cause. After the fuel vent had slowed to a drip, I requested if I could be taken to the aircraft. I was given consent from Airport Rescue and
Fire Fighting (ARFF) to start up the plane. With no success, I came to realize that the ferry tank was empty, but the wings were still full. I had operated it the way the owner instructed me to so I was confused. The special airworthiness certificate packet had stated that there is supposed to be instructions on how to operate it provided during flight to the pilot. Of course, I had no luck on finding that. The only instructions I remembered was the 1-2 minute spew the owner gave me. I feel as the contributing factors were get-there-itis, insufficient flight planning and poor judgment. There were three critical turning points which occurred that could have been avoided in this flight: hypoxia, icing and fuel starvation. Hypoxia is no joke. What I learned is that it can differentiate depending on the certain conditions, for me I believe the lack of sleep, eating and being at higher altitudes could have caused it. It affected my performance and decision making throughout the flight. With the icing conditions, I had encountered in climbs and descents, I should learn to watch for weather patterns in unfamiliar regions more closely. The idea of flying a bottom chain aircraft long distances is limiting. NO boots, poor performance, no radar, oxygen, etc. It doesn't matter if the aircraft is brand new or however much time you have in the plane, it will still have the same limits in versatility. With these two factors contributing to the third, fuel starvation. TO my own conclusion, I had operated the ferry fuel system insufficiently. The reason why the fuel vent was leaking was because the line that pumps fuel into the left wing pumped 14-15 gallons/hour when I was only burning around 8-9 gallons/hour. What I was supposed to do was switch back and forth between the left wing tank and ferry fuel tank. I ran out of fuel in the ferry tank which led to fuel starvation resulting in engine failure. I had thought it was going to be a self-sustaining system. Overall, it was a difficult lesson well learned. It's a hard pill to swallow knowing that I had the perfect recipe for disaster. Theoretically, I was not supposed to make it out alive. I was traumatized enough, I vowed to never let this happen to me again. To never accept any sketchy opportunities without proper planning and research. I could have stopped and landed at the closest airport to continue the next day or even call it off. My will to get this flight done and not to disappoint customers out spoke my judgment. Not all flights go as planned, but we learn that this is aviation. Delay is always better than a disaster. I had proper reasoning and so many factors working against me, I should have just discontinued. I was the sole PIC during the flight and no one was there to tell me what to do. The red flags were peer pressure, time commitments, short notice, money, single engine piston over the ocean and lack of team members to fly along with. As you can see here, the risk assessment was already high before the flight was even conducted. I didn't need the money or flight time. Just breaking enough flight time for ATP, I thought of this as my last hoorah before I went to the airlines. It'd be a fun experience builder. I was wrong it does not matter what experience level you are as well because it can happen to anyone and I got to see it in a first-hand account. No one told me to do the trip and it could have all been avoided. With that being said, I am extremely lucky and blessed to be with helpful and caring people that day who saved me. They executed everything perfectly and I am able to come home to my family for [the holidays]. From that, I am able to build my moral judgment and character on future flights and my career. I feel as I now have the courage whenever I become a Captain somewhere to be confidently decline if ever situated with a difficult problem and it will be valuable down my career. I can take a risk assessment next time I am faced with it. I will most definitely bring up this case as an example for future aviators in hopes they will never make the same decision I made that day and from that I am gifted to come out unharmed to be able to take the skies again another day. Synopsis
C172 pilot reported an enroute divert after losing his engine. He missed the runway then landed short of a taxiway.
Time / Day Date : 201612 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Weather Elements / Visibility : Icing Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility Ceiling.Single Value : 1300 RVR.Single Value : 5000 Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : PA-28R Cherokee Arrow All Series Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Landing Route In Use : Direct Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Private Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 600 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 25 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 200 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1410557 Events Anomaly.Ground Excursion : Runway Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Ground Strike - Aircraft Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Loss Of Aircraft Control Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Object Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Diverted
Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Departed with three FSS online checks in the preceding 24 hours and a telephone conversation with FSS just an hour prior to departure. Encountered no icing until 7000 feet and then got 1/8 inch very very quickly, asked ATC for let down and dropped, seemed to be more ice slowly accumulating so asked, received and went to 3000, did not feel comfortable as it seemed ice was still slowly accumulating so got diversion to ZZZI. After turning to the assigned heading I still did not like what I perceived was happening on the Temp Probe so asked for nearest and given ZZZ and for descent lower. Ceiling encountered was broken at about 2500 but ATC comm then became intermittent. Further messages were relayed by a nearby Cirrus informing ATC I was in VMC and proceeding direct ZZZ. Ground visualization allowed me to maintain N1300 feet and icing finally seemed to halt. Overflew ZZZ and determined runway and wind direction. Proceeded outbound and discovered the aircraft was responding sluggishly on turns so I kept them shallow and watched the airspeed very closely. Watching ground, airspeed and lining up for runway XY I felt the aircraft was behaving like there was a significant amount of airflow compromise so I kept the airspeed high, did not deploy flaps and was aware that lowering the gear could severely compromise lift, perhaps to a stall, so I decided to keep the gear up until the very last instant. About 5 seconds before threshold I felt high and fast and thought I may need to do a missed but considered how much climb performance was in the prop and wings and could it be accomplished, so I throttled back gingerly and the plane came down quickly, and I controlled it with pitch and slight power back up. Over the threshold position/height seemed good and speed was 80 knots and the wings felt like they still had some margin of lift, but I wanted to be very low to the runway when I extended the gear in case there was not enough lift and gear extension would stall the plane into the runway, so I pulled throttle back very slightly and speed bled off almost, it seemed, instantly; the nose came up as the auto-extend gear deployed and the stall warning sounded. I quickly put some throttle back in and gingerly pitched up and the plane planted firmly but not hard on all three wheels on a snow covered runway. Rollout occurred and after about two seconds, it felt like driving on a gravel road in the car at about twenty miles an hour, and I was thinking: be careful with directional control, easy on the braking to avoid skidding, with this surface I might over-run the end of the field, be careful. Then I noticed the passenger side dipping slightly, slowly and wondered what was going on, it seemed slow, the gear! I put the gear switch down, but the tilt completed and then a second later the nose gear collapsed. The resulting slide was slow, gentle and we went Off the field eventually into grass, taking out one runway light in the process. Neither I nor my passenger sustained any injury at all. Damage that I saw was prop strike, probably internal engine consequences from the sudden stoppage, whatever damage occurred to the right main and nose gear, possible stress to the left gear and a dent in the right leading edge from the probable runway light clip. Synopsis Piper Cherokee Arrow pilot reported icing conditions, diversion and experienced right main and nose gear collapse on rollout on snow covered runway.
Time / Day Date : 201612 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 6000 Environment Flight Conditions : IMC Weather Elements / Visibility : Icing Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZZZ Make Model Name : Cessna 402/402C/B379 Businessliner/Utiliner Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Approach Airspace.CIass E : ZZZ Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1410442 Events Anomaly.Deviation - Speed : All Types Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Returned To Departure Airport Result.FIight Crew : Executed Go Around / Missed Approach Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Weather Narrative: 1
We were conducting a flight at 6,000 ft in cruise flight. We were not accumulating ice due to a temperature inversion that was in place over the region. As we approached [destination] we set up for the approach. Anticipating icing conditions I initiated my descent later than normal to reduce our exposure in icing conditions. Over about [a] 10 minute [period] we encountered what appeared to be severe icing. As we turned final I blew the boots, however none of the ice was removed from the airplane. I briefed [the First Officer] that I was going to fly the approach at a higher airspeed to [account] for the ice on the aircraft. I crossed the threshold at about 120 kts and noted the aircraft stalled as I began to flare at about 115 knots. We hit the ground rather firmly and bounced back into the air. I initiated a go-around because I was concerned that I would not be able to successfully stop the aircraft on the remaining runway surface with the increased airspeed and weight on the aircraft. After establishing a positive rate we retracted the gear and climbed away from the runway. Once we encountered the inversion we were able to blow the boots and the ice was removed from the aircraft. We decided that it would be best to return to [departure airport] instead of attempting another approach in those conditions. We landed without further incident. Synopsis Cessna 402C Captain reported returning to the departure airport after experiencing significant ice accumulation on approach to their destination.
Time / Day Date : 201612 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 30000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Challenger Jet Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Climb Airspace.Class A : ZZZ Component Aircraft Component : Cockpit Window Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Failed Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 8230 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 20 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 2000 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1410169 Events
Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Landed As Precaution Result.FIight Crew : Diverted Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 Left Captain's window (direct view windshield) crack. Normal climb out, ATC request (300 knots and 2000 FPM). Reducing to 280 knots after FL290. Passing FL300 for FL360 we heard a loud BANG/POP. [The] outer pane of the Captain's left side direct view front windshield shattered into many fragments, but shards remained intact within laminate. I leveled off and returned to FL300, advised ATC, transferred controls, donned my 02 mask, and established comm. We still had 5 hours of flight to destination into known icing conditions. Our final cruise altitude was FL380. I had misgivings about the ability Of the window to maintain pressure. I also was worried that delaminated pieces may be ingested into the left engine. Passenger comfort and anxiety was a concern. We advised ATC we would like to divert to [an alternate]. We requested lower. While in descent we executed the QRH. We also did all normal descent and in range checks. We advised the passengers of the abnormality. Reassured everything was under control and the cabin pressure was still normal. We advised for safety we were diverting. I chose [the alternate] due to its proximity, familiarity, services, and length of runway required due to excess fuel in amount of 17000 lbs. An overweight landing would be required. We received vectors, [and] I configured early to create some drag to burn fuel. Passengers and flight attendants were briefed again for normal landing. Landed uneventfully. Synopsis CL65 Captain reported diverting to an alternate after the outer pane of his direct view windshield shattered.
Time / Day Date : 201612 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 2500 Environment Flight Conditions : Mixed Weather Elements / Visibility : Fog Weather Elements / Visibility : Icing Weather Elements / Visibility.VisibiIity Light : Night Ceiling.Single Value : 2500 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Light Sport Aircraft Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Descent Route In Use : Direct Airspace.CIass B : ZZZ Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification Flight Crew : Private Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 528 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 90 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 460 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1410166 Human Factors : Training / Qualification Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : VFR In IMC Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight
Result.FIight Crew : Diverted Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I knew that my late departure would mean a night cross country, but I had always kept current on night flying, so that was not a concern. Upon departing, my Garmin G3X informed me that I had NO GPS! I considered returning, but the airport was deserted. With the remaining leg of the trip calling for scattered clouds and no VFR weather in the forecast for the next two days in the area, I elected to call Flight Following which I had utilized on the first leg of the trip. I told him my no GPS situation and requested a heading. He obliged and I discussed my situation with each Flight Following Controller to which I was handed off. The closer I approached my destination, the worse the weather. With full instrumentation on the new Carbon Cub, I was confident in flying low under clouds. But at night, with none of the benefits afforded by GPS, I was pushed higher over the increasingly less scattered clouds. At some point, near [destination], I knew that I was in violation Of VFR regulations. The ceiling was only 2,500 ft and I told [ATC] that I wanted [to] wait to descend through the clouds close to the city, so that the light of the city might better illuminate any holes that weren't presently visible. The clouds, through which I descended, with few holes, were thick and wet, but I finally got under them just south of [destination] on a heading that would have taken me on a hopefully, to be approved, straight-in [approach]. Before [ATC] switched me, he said that a pilot had reported severe icing [at destination]. He said that I could continue or divert to [another airport] which had not, as yet, had any icing reports. I accepted his offer and he cleared me for an immediate landing. I reported that my windshield was icing up to the point where seeing directly in front of the plane was difficult to impossible. My best vision forward was at a 45 degree angle. I asked for, and received, permission to fly final on a path parallel and to the right of [the runway], moving over to my left after passing the runway threshold. After doing so, I reminded the Controller that my only clear vision was to the sides of the plane. The Controller told me when I was over the centerline of the runway as I descended. Actually, it was a pretty good landing, as I could judge distance above the runway by looking out the side of the plane. When I was on final I told him that if he could help me stay over the center of the runway, I would make a picture perfect landing. Upon landing, I was surprised at the amount of ice on the windshield and leading edge of the wings. The Flight Following personnel along the way and the Tower Controller were very professional in helping me out of a situation I could have, and should have, avoided. No more trying to get in before the bad weather arrives. Sometimes, it arrives early. Synopsis Carbon Cub pilot reported encountering icing conditions that restricted his visibility during approach and landing.
Time / Day Date : 201612 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : SLC.Airport State Reference : UT Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 16000 Environment Flight Conditions : IMC Weather Elements / Visibility : Snow Weather Elements / Visibility : Icing Weather Elements / Visibility : Turbulence Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : 5 Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 1000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZLC ATC / Advisory.TRACON : S56 Aircraft Operator : Corporate Make Model Name : Citation Excel (C560XL) Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Nav In Use.Localizer/GIidesIope/ILS : Runway 35 Flight Phase : Descent Route In Use.STAR : LEEHY4 Airspace.CIass E : S56 Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Corporate Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 6250 Experience. Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 125 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 1300 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1410129
Human Factors Human Factors Human Factors Events : Workload : Situational Awareness : Distraction Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Overshoot Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Returned To Clearance Result.Flight Crew : Became Reoriented Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 On descent into SLC, Salt Lake Center changed our cleared arrival procedure from the DELTA4 to the QWENN4 and we were instructed to cross FRNZY at 15K feet. Passing through 21K, ATC instructed us to turn right to a heading of 090 vectors for LEEHY and the LEEHY4 arrival due to a pilot report of severe turbulence at 15K feet over the FRNZY intersection. As pilot monitoring, I read back the instructions while the flying pilot engaged heading mode on the autopilot and complied with the turn. We were then instructed to maintain 16K feet and were given an altimeter setting .13 lower than the ATIS value which was only 5 min old. Upon query the issued setting of 29.32 was verified (the SLC TRACON later confirmed the ATIS value of 29.45). I then reset the altitude selector to 16K feet and began to reprogram the FMS for the new arrival as we began to experience continuous moderate turbulence and moderate rime icing associated with the frontal passage in the area. While we never experienced severe turbulence as reported by other arriving aircraft, it was certainly making it more difficult to make the required programming inputs. We made a PIREP of our flight conditions and then as we entered the high teens on altitude, we were cleared direct to LEEHY for the QWENN4 arrival. I read back the instructions without a correction, but having just been told to expect the LEEHY arrival, this instruction seemed incorrect. In recalling the chart for the QWENN4 on my EFB, the suspicions we were actively discussing as a crew were confirmed in that LEEHY was not contained in the QWENN4 STAR. We addressed this concern to the ARTCC controller who admitted we were mis-cleared and to now proceed direct to LEEHY for the LEEHY4. Immediately after, a follow-up call was made by ATC asking us if we were still descending to 15K or if we had copied the revised instruction to maintain 16K. We reported that we were leveling at 16K but immediately recognized our error in missing the fact that we had just transitioned through FL 180 and had not yet set our local altimeter setting. With the extremely low pressure in the SLC area, it made for a descent through our assigned altitude of nearly 500 feet before we made the barometric pressure setting change to coax the autopilot back to 16K feet. The remainder of the flight was uneventful as we transitioned into the LDA/DME approach to Runway 35, breaking out of IMC 1000 ft
AGL. In retrospect, we should have requested radar vectors in lieu of our 5th STAR clearance in a critical phase of flight through challenging flight conditions (moderate ice and continuous moderate turbulence with reports to expect worse). The numerous changes to our assigned altitudes, headings, fixes, and STARs coupled with the flight conditions made for the "perfect storm" of distraction to allow the two of us to miss our FL180 callouts and associated flows/checklists. At the end of the day we certainly appreciated the favorable routing away from the severe turbulence and the quick catch by the ARTCC controller as we missed our level off. It was apparent that both the radar room and the cockpit were task saturated at an inopportune time. Despite all challenges, more emphasis and care need to be applied by myself and my flying pilot first officer to not miss an important primary flight task such as transition level. Synopsis C56X Captain reported overshooting his cleared altitude during descent into SLC when the altimeter was not set to local descending out of FL 180. Numerous arrival changes contributed to the deviation.
Time / Day Date : 201612 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : MMV.Airport State Reference : OR Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 6000 Environment Flight Conditions : IMC Weather Elements / Visibility : Icing Weather Elements / Visibility : Cloudy Weather Elements / Visibility : Turbulence Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : 5 Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 600 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : P80 Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Small Aircraft, Low Wing, 2 Eng, Retractable Gear Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Personal Nav In Use : GPS Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use : Direct Airspace.Class E : P80 Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.FIight Crew : Private Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 4300 Experience.FIight Crew. Last 90 Days : 60 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 2200 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1409504 Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Confusion Events
Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 There was no event. There was no conflict. The issue is bad handling by approach control in and around a "hot spot" near the UBG VOR. This report centers on events which transpired during an instrument approach into MMV. This is perhaps an unusual report, as to the best of my knowledge there were no conflicts or violations in that airspace around that time, and certainly none involving me or my aircraft. I make this report only to flag what I perceive to be an environment that may be unusually conducive to causing errors, violations and conflicts. I have flown in the Northwest for decades, and MMV is my home airport. I was returning home. The weather had been extremely bad for several days, with snow, freezing rain, and icing in clouds, to where I was being very cautious and had delayed my flight, and even did an overnight in ZZZ in hopes that the clearing trends would continue, which they did. My flight back was uneventful, VFR on top in bright sunshine, and getting colder as headed north. The temperature had been minus 7, but it dropped to about minus 14 as we approached Portland. The reported weather was excellent. The AWOS at MMV said better than 5, with broken layers at 8,000 and 6,000 with a few clouds at 600. It was several degrees above freezing on the ground. As we passed Eugene we could see dark layers of lower clouds in the distance. My plan was to stay as high as possible to avoid icing, and to then drop through quickly with anti-ice on. I used this technique often in the past with good results, despite the fact that I sometimes encountered moderate icing as I dropped through. To this end I asked Seattle Center if I could get a clearance to the IAF for the ILS, OZIER. They gave me that clearance, but warned me that Portland Approach might change it. When I was switched to Portland Approach they kept that clearance for a time. I set up the approach with OZIER as the Initial Fix. I was told to be at or below 6,000 at 16 DME from UBG. This seemed odd to me. I had been VFR on top, but was now descending into IMC, and IJBG was not part of the routing I'd been given. The response from the controller was snappish. She repeated it, and asked me if I didn't comprehend crossing restrictions. I said that I did, and started my descent, still planning to stay as high as possible. She did not specify a final altitude. I assumed she intended to say 6,000, but was reluctant to question her again. Apparently I guessed correctly. As we got closer, I was unexpectedly told go direct UBG, with the same crossing restriction. I questioned this and got snapped at again. By now we were in IMC. She repeated the clearance, clearly irritated. I acknowledged, kept descending, and set to reprogramming my GPS for direct UBG. About the time I got this done, she changed my clearance to a vector away from UBG. Cockpit workload was getting high and I wasn't sure of her clearance or her intentions. I asked for a repeat. She had been in intense communications with another aircraft on the frequency. I was occupied with my own problems. What I got was harsh words, a vector, a sharp turn, and a warning to pay attention. I replied that I was paying attention and complied. She warned me I was getting close to my crossing restriction, so I
increased my descent rate, to over 1,200 feet per minute. I had the feeling the controller was out of control as I leveled at 6,000. About the time I settled on the new vector, I was given another major heading change, a descent to 3,000, and a new frequency. I checked in. The new controller acknowledged and said to expect the ILS. The new controller was GOOD. My vector was now in the opposite direction to the ILS, and close in, very tight. I kept descending and setting up for a VTF (Vector to Final). The controller then told me he had another aircraft and he needed me at 3,000 as soon as possible. I gave him our descent rate. I think we were within 500 feet of altitude and still at about 1,200 FPM. Whatever it was, I broadcast it to him and he was happy. The rest the traffic handling was excellent. My 180 degree intercept angle evolved into two precisely-called right angle turns, and I didn't even overshoot. My GPS, of course, was overwhelmed by all this. It correctly refused to enable the approach. It was well outside it's parameters for a VTF, but the localizer was there, VHF NAV and hand flying worked, and, when established, I was switched to UNICOM. The weather experienced on the approach wasn't much like the AT IS. The Northwest is like that. We passed OZIER at 2,900 feet still in solid IMC About LIYEV, 1,900 feet, we did break out into good visibility except for one large cloud ahead of us on the localizer. There was VFR traffic at MMV, a helicopter as I recall, and he asked where we were. I told him we had just gone back into the clouds, and then gave him a report when we came out the other side at about 600 feet. The landing was uneventful, except that I had no communications on the ground with approach. I had to call on my cell phone from in front of the hangar after we were down to cancel and did. So that was the trip. Why this report? This was too much hassle, too much unnecessary work load, and this in a situation where the official weather was good, and there was only one or two other airplanes anywhere around. The airspace around the Newberg VOR used to handle much more traffic, in much worse weather, and with fewer problems. It's not as safe as it used to be. I suggest this is not a good place to assign a less-than-expert controller without supervision, not even for the task of feeding traffic to a seasoned pro handing the final clearances himself. Nothing bad happened this time, but this airspace is becoming a "hot spot" known for problematic traffic handling. My concern is that eventually there will be violations, conflicts, or incidents. Synopsis GA pilot reported poor handling from ATC in the vicinity of UBG VOR on approach to MMV in IMC and icing conditions.
Time / Day Date : 201612 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : TRK.Airport State Reference : CA Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : TRK Aircraft Operator : Fractional : Icing Make Model Name : Light Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Ferry Flight Phase : Taxi Flight Phase : Landing Route In Use : Visual Approach Component Aircraft Component : Other Documentation Aircraft Reference : X Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Fractional Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1408885 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Workload Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Ground Personnel Events
Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Other / Unknown Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : Taxi Result.FIight Crew : Became Reoriented Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Contributing Factors / Situations : Chart Or Publication Contributing Factors / Situations : Airport Primary Problem : Weather Narrative: 1 I would recommend the inclusion of a note to have crews call the airport prior to departure to ascertain the runway conditions. It seems that T RK will not issue a runway condition NOTAM unless the conditions render the airport closed. No NOTAM was issued on this day. We expected and calculated reduced runway friction landing performance prior to arrival upon receipt of a braking action report by UNICOM. We did not notice any reduced braking action on the runway in part due to use of thrust reverse engine power. However, once we taxied onto the taxiway reduced friction was clearly noticeable. We continued our taxi onto the ramp at a gingerly pace. The taxiway and ramp were covered in black ice. TRK does not provide for any treatments of its surfaces. TRK personnel said they believed the contamination would be melted within about an hour after our arrival. The contamination did melt less than an hour after our arrival. It seems that the personnel's experience can be taken into account for future operations. Furthermore, and with the contamination in mind, operations without operating thrust reversers into TRK in the winter should maybe be reviewed. Synopsis Business jet Captain reported operating at TRK with inaccurate and limited airport condition reports during airport surface icing conditions.
Time / Day Date : 201612 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.VisibiIity Light : Dusk Ceiling.Single Value : 5000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal : 60 Make Model Name : PA-28 Cherokee/Archer/Dakota/PiIIan/Warrior Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Final Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.CIass D : ZZZ Component Aircraft Component : Throttle/Power Level Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Private Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 300 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 30 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 200 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1407672 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Training / Qualification : Workload Human Factors Confusion Human Factors :
Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Speed : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result. General : Maintenance Action Result.Flight Crew : Inflight Shutdown Result.FIight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.Aircraft : Aircraft Damaged Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 I was rushing towards my base in order to avoid sunset in a calm cold winter day with zero wind; I reached well within limits and with enough time to get to an alternate, anyhow I headed direct to final as nobody was in the air. When I descended I seemed to have difficulties slowing down the aircraft and much later I realized the throttle was stuck about 500-600 rpm above idle, not too much but enough for a crash landing. I assumed (correctly) that there was a serious problem with the throttle, cable or carb. In our area we do not have 9000 ft runways maybe 3000 at the best. I didn't consider a go around because I was afraid the damage could also affect the higher rpms sooner or later. I pushed the nose to the grass behind the threshold and flew at about 10m from the ground and then the same from the runway. I had put full flaps to increase drag and I removed them abruptly and at the same time I closed the mixture. In any case I still had too much airspeed, about 75 kt upon touchdown. The plane did not fall but descended slowly as I elevated the nose, and touched gently; however, I had gone beyond the middle of the runway and required heavy breaking to stop the aircraft. I was criticized for not doing a go around; however, I would still have done the same should it have happened again. I could have damaged the front gear in the grass ahead (probably not) but we still would have walked out safely and with minor damage to the aircraft; going around is perfect if you have misjudged the airspeed or altitude but not in a power failure (in excess!) where the situation could get much worse. I am a very new pilot, but I had a good day and was very calm throughout all the event. The question is that we are never trained for such incidents so there you are to improvise and control your panic. In a previous report another pilot diverted to a 9000 ft airport and did some weird maneuvers which I didn't understand. As I see it, when you at a safe gliding distance just close the mixture, but don't turn off magnetos (if you do it the other way round you will flood the engine with unburnt fuel which could eventually cause a fire, at least that is my opinion). Then full flaps and gear down. There is no way anything can go wrong. My propeller was wind milling still during landing and the engine restarted immediately when I pushed the lever to full rich, so if you miss the runway, you still have many chances of restarting and going back into the air. Try not to be too high and look for a long runway if possible. You cannot imagine how soon a plane will reduce velocity with zero power and full drag. In my case I became aware of the situation in short final when I was unable to reduce speed and loose altitude in a normal way, I was forced to make a
decision in less than 5 seconds but in the event of failing touch down correctly on the runway I had planned a go around (very dangerous too) and gain altitude and follow the above mentioned procedure. [The aircraft] is always hangared and kept in pristine condition. No icing conditions, I had carb Heat ON and I also have carb ice detector. Synopsis Piper Archer pilot reported loss of engine throttle control on final approach. He shut the engine down in flight with full flaps, landed long, but apparently stopped the aircraft on the runway undamaged.
