Report Set Description. Update Number.. Date of Update ........................ Number of Records in Report Set....................... 50 Number ofNew Records in Report Set ...............25 Type of Records in Report Set.. ASRS Database Report Set Maintenance Reports .........A sampling of reports from aircraft maintenance personnel. .....30.0 ..January 31, 2018 .............For each update, new records received at ASRS will displace a like number of the oldest records in the Report Set, with the objective of providing the fifty most recent relevant ASRS Database records. Records within this Report Set have been screened to assure then- relevance to the topic.
National Aeronautics and Space Administration Ames Research Center Moffett Field, CA 94035-1000 TH: 262-7 MEMORANDUM FOR: Recipients of Aviation Safety Reporting System Data SUBJECT: Data Derived from ASRS Reports The attached material is furnished pursuant to a request for data from the NASA Aviation Safety Reporting System (ASRS). Recipients of this material are reminded when evaluating these data of the following points. ASRS reports are submitted voluntarily. The existence in the ASRS database of reports concerning a specific topic cannot, therefore, be used to infer the prevalence of that problem within the National Airspace System. Information contained in reports submitted to ASRS may be amplified by further contact with the individual who submitted them, but the information provided by the reporter is not investigated further. Such information represents the perspective of the specific individual who is describing their experience and perception of a safety related event. After preliminary processing, all ASRS reports are de-identified and the identity of the individual who submitted the report is permanently eliminated. All ASRS report processing systems are designed to protect identifying information submitted by reporters; including names, company affiliations, and specific times of incident occurrence. After a report has been de-identified, any verification of information submitted to ASRS would be limited. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration and its ASRS current contractor, Booz Allen Hamilton, specifically disclaim any responsibility for any interpretation which may be made by others of any material or data furnished by NASA in response to queries of the ASRS database and related materials. Linda J. Connell, Director NASA Aviation Safety Reporting System
CAVEAT REGARDING USE OF ASRS DATA Certain caveats apply to the use of ASRS data. All ASRS reports are voluntarily submitted, and thus cannot be considered a measured random sample of the full population of like events. For example, we receive several thousand altitude deviation reports each year. This number may comprise over half of all the altitude deviations that occur, or it may be just a small fraction of total occurrences. Moreover, not all pilots, controllers, mechanics, flight attendants, dispatchers or other participants in the aviation system are equally aware of the ASRS or may be equally willing to report. Thus, the data can reflect reporting biases. These biases, which are not fully known or measurable, may influence ASRS information. A safety problem such as near midair collisions (NMACs) may appear to be more highly concentrated in area "A" than area "B" simply because the airmen who operate in area "A" are more aware of the ASRS program and more inclined to report should an NMAC occur. Any type of subjective, voluntary reporting will have these limitations related to quantitative statistical analysis. One thing that can be Imown from ASRS data is that the number of reports received concerning specific event types represents the lower measure of the true number of such events that are occurring. For example, if ASRS receives 881 reports of track deviations in 2010 (this number is purely hypothetical), then it can be known with some certainty that at least 881 such events have occurred in 2010. With these statistical limitations m mind, we believe that the real power of ASRS data is the qualitative information contained in report narratives. The pilots, controllers, and others who report tell us about aviation safety incidents and situations in detail — explaining what happened, and more importantly, why it happened. Using report narratives effectively requires an extra measure of study, but the knowledge derived is well worth the added effort.
Report Synopses
ACN:1497293 (lof50) Synopsis Four air carrier Maintenance Technicians reported that when pushing a CRJ-200 out of the hangar they lost control and the aircraft made contact with another aircraft. ACN: 1494449 (20f50) Synopsis Two Maintenance Technicians reported that the wing flaps of the aircraft made contact with under wing stands when the aircraft settled due to fueling. ACN:1492960 (30f50) Synopsis A Hawker 800 appeared to have a Vortilon pointing in the opposite direction. ACN: 1492224 (40f50) Synopsis Line Technician reported a B737 returned to the gate due to a pitot static cover not being removed prior to departure. ACN•. 1490507 (50f50) Synopsis Maintenance reported that "unserviceable" tags were removed from several tow bars and, the tow bars were put back into service without being repaired. ACN: 1489951 (60f50) Synopsis A Maintenance Technician reported that a log book entry may have been signed as accomplished when the work was not done. ACN: 1487260 (70f50) Synopsis Maintenance reported they installed an incorrect bearing on an MD-II nose gear wheel assembly. ACN: 1485617 (80f50) Synopsis Maintenance Technician reported a Crew Chief may have falsified documents by signing Off items that were not accomplished due to time pressure.
ACN:1485209 (90f50) Synopsis A Maintenance Technician reported observing Ramp personnel towing an aircraft without a brake rider and no ability to address tractor problems. ACN: 1482673 (100f50) Synopsis 3787 Maintenance Technician reported the nose gear pin can mistakenly be installed into the NLG drag brace hollow bolt rendering the gear unsafe for ground testing. ACN:1482118 (11 of50) Synopsis Maintenance Technician reported discovering the transfer gearbox shroud for a CFM56 engine could be installed upside down and may have occurred on previous gearbox assemblies. ACN:1481878 (120f50) Synopsis A319 Maintenance Technician reported finding a check valve was missing a through bolt on an engine that was slow to spool. ACN:1481875 (130f50) Synopsis Two air carrier Maintenance Technicians reported that during a heavy check on an Airbus 319 it was discovered that lower engine mount pins were missing. ACN: 1480900 (140f50) Synopsis A Maintenance Technician reported that while getting ready to tow an aircraft he was not informed the ramp was closed because of lightning strikes in the area. ACN: 1480407 (150f50) Synopsis Maintenance Technician and helper reported being instructed to reinstall a part because replacement parts were not in stock. ACN•. 1480045 (160f50) Synopsis
A Bombardier CRJ-900 Maintenance crew and a First Officer reported a hydraulic leak at the main landing gear. The First Officer reported of a burning sensation in his eyes. ACN: 1480038 (170f50) Synopsis Two Maintenance Technicians working on Citation X (C750) reported that items for the nose gear torque links were missing from a previous repair. ACN: 1480029 (180f50) Synopsis MD-II Maintenance Technician reported 3 incidents of nose wheel bearing failures. ACN•. 1479332 (190f50) Synopsis 3737 Maintenance Technician reported changing the rudder arm weight without performing a weight and balance procedure. ACN: 1477782 Synopsis A Maintenance Inspector reported that the front engine mounts did not have washers installed. ACN: 1476928 (21 of50) Synopsis CE-750 Maintenance Technician reported a pressurization problem was not repaired correctly and an incorrect part was supplied for a thrust reverser lock-out panel. ACN: 1476062 Synopsis A Maintenance Controller reported that he received a report that a Bombardier CRJ-700 had minor cabin damage due to turbulence, later it was found to have severe cabin damage. ACN: 1475025 (230f50) Synopsis Air carrier Maintenance Technician reported that he may have left a grease gun in the nose landing gear door. ACN: 1475019 (240f50)
Synopsis Maintenance Technician reported that over 50 rivets were found damaged on an A320 due to lightning strikes. The aircraft continued to fly without proper maintenance action. ACN: 1473070 (250f50) Synopsis Maintenance Technician reported new hose clamps have been installed on air start units that are potentially a safety risk. ACN: 1471065 (260f50) Synopsis CRJ-700 Maintenance Technician reported replacing a part and not noticing that an inspection was required. The oversight was detected six days later by a Maintenance Supervisor. ACN: 1465584 (270f50) Synopsis Maintenance personnel reported that they received emergency medical kits that were incomplete. ACN: 1465576 (28 of50) Synopsis A Maintenance Technician reported that emergency slides are not rendered safe prior to removal on Boeing 737 aircraft. ACN: 1465118 Synopsis A Maintenance Technician reported that maintenance took a delay because of the required inspection for a bird strike was not accomplished per work cards. ACN: 1463934 (300f50) Synopsis A Maintenance Technician reported his safety concerns to management about towing aircraft without a second person to maintain vigilance. ACN: 1463933 (31 of50) Synopsis 3777 Maintenance Technician reported that while attempting to repair a cabin interphone problem, a Customer Service Manager accused him of intentionally delaying the flight.
ACN:1463245 (32 of50) Synopsis 3767 Maintenance Technician reported that when the last of the 3 IRU switches were turned off the spoilers were un-commanded to the down position while maintenance personnel were installing up-locks to the spoilers. ACN: 1462481 (330f50) Synopsis An ETOPS qualified Maintenance Technician signed off work and released a Boeing 767 for service not realizing that it required an inspection sign off also. ACN: 1461547 (340f50) Synopsis Maintenance technician reported an inspector refused to sign-off the final document associated with the work per the procedures manual. ACN:1461536 (350f50) Synopsis Maintenance technicians reported that after requesting the flight crew to lower the leading edge flaps, the trailing edge flaps were also extended, making contact with ground equipment. ACN: 1460910 (360f50) Synopsis A Maintenance Technician reported of some confusion if a replacement hydraulic line was a permanent or temporary fix. ACN: 1460014 (370f50) Synopsis Maintenance Controller reported being informed of possibly mishandling a biohazard cleanup and MEL entry into the aircraft logbook after a passenger had given birth on the flight. ACN:1458676 (38 of50) Synopsis Technician reported that seven hours after completing an annual inspection, a Mooney M- 10 throttle disconnected resulting in an off field landing. ACN:1457583 (390f50)
Synopsis Technician reported that a Boeing 777 made an unscheduled landing at a non- maintenance station and required a repetitive maintenance inspection. Proper documentation procedures were not followed. ACN•. 1456057 (400f50) Synopsis A Maintenance Technician reported that items were falsely documented using his employee number. ACN•. 1455674 (41 of50) Synopsis Maintenance Technician reported that the company did not follow the manufacturer's guidelines concerning loading passengers while maintenance was performed on the aircraft. ACN•. 1453836 (420f50) Synopsis Maintenance Technician reported that the inner O-ring for the hydraulic reservoir drain valve on the A321 continues to fail. ACN: 1453271 (430f50) Synopsis A Maintenance Supervisor reported that during a tire change on a Boeing 757, a Technician lacerated his finger when attempting to change a fitting on a nitrogen cart. ACN: 1453267 (440f50) Synopsis A Maintenance Technician reported neglecting to deflate an unserviceable landing gear tire prior to shipping it. ACN: 1453264 (450f50) Synopsis A Maintenance Technician reported that ramp personnel are moving aircraft with unauthorized personnel and not following procedures. ACN: 1453038 (460f50) Synopsis
CRJ-700 Maintenance Technician reported the engine fire bottle was inadvertently discharged when the fire shut-off switch was tested. ACN: 1452718 (470f50) Synopsis Maintenance Technician reported an AS355 helicopter airspeed indicator was replaced with an incorrect unit. The original faulty indicator was reinstalled and the aircraft returned to service without documentation. ACN: 1452210 (480f50) Synopsis Maintenance Technicians reported that on a Boeing 777 an outside vendor created an unsafe situation when working on open fuel tanks. ACN: 1452198 (490f50) Synopsis DHC-8 Maintenance Technician reported an aircraft aborted takeoff due to lack of elevator control. Speed tape was discovered on the topside of the elevator spring tabs. ACN: 1451188 (500f50) Synopsis A Maintenance Inspector reported that a Vendor did not accomplish the repairs required due to lack of information.
Report Narratives
Time / Day Date : 201711 Local Time Of Day : 0001-0600 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.SingIe Value : Environment Work Environment Factor : Light : Night Aircraft : 1 Reference : X Poor Lighting Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Regional Jet 200 ER/LR (CRJ200) Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Taxi Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Regional Jet 200 ER/LR (CRJ200) Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Phase : Parked Component Aircraft Component : Trailing Edge Flap Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Improperly Operated Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Maintenance : Technician Qualification.Maintenance : Powerplant Qualification.Maintenance : Airframe ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1497293 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Communication Breakdown
Communication Breakdown.PartyI Communication Breakdown. Party2 Person : 2 Reference : 2 : Maintenance : Maintenance Location Of Person : Gate / Ramp / Line Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Maintenance : Lead Technician Qualification.Maintenance : Airframe Qualification.Maintenance : Powerplant ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1497294 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Time Pressure Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Maintenance Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Maintenance Person : 3 Reference : 3 Location Of Person : Gate / Ramp / Line Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Maintenance : Technician Qualification.Maintenance : Powerplant Qualification.Maintenance : Airframe ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1497296 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Maintenance Person : 4 Reference : 4 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Maintenance : Technician Qualification.Maintenance : Airframe Qualification.Maintenance : Powerplant ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1497295 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Time Pressure Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Maintenance Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Maintenance Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Maintenance Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Aircraft Detector. Person : Maintenance When Detected .0ther Result.General : Maintenance Action Result.Aircraft : Aircraft Damaged
Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airport Contributing Factors / Situations : Equipment / Tooling Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I was asked to take [the aircraft] to the gate. Boarded aircraft got plane ready to go to gate. Tug driver gave signal to release brakes. Release brakes seen wing walker go to right. Plane is backed out of hangar, got APU running so I would have brakes. Plane was pushed back then we stopped, heard loud crash. Narrative: 2 We began to push [the aircraft] out of the hangar for a gate. I was tug driver and [another maintenance technician was] right wing walker. The aircraft was pushed out of the hangar and due to the incline of the ramp entering the hangar the plane/tug picked up a little speed. This caused [the wing walker] to fall behind the plane where he lost visibility. I began to turn to angle the aircraft for departure to the gate when the right wing O/B (outboard) flap struck the lower fuselage below the F/O's (First Officers) side of [the other aircraft], ultimately with the flap of lodging into the nose gear of [the other aircraft]. Narrative: 3 Prior to gate time. I was asked by my crew chief to wing walk. After the aircraft cleared the hangar door. [The aircraft] accelerated faster than I could move, I lost sight on the wing. When I caught up to plane, it had collided with [another aircraft]. Narrative: 4 I was asked by my crew chief to ride right seat in [an aircraft]. I proceeded to climb aboard the aircraft and go into the cockpit, as we backed out of the hangar I had a visual of the wing walker and right side as we exited the hangar. Shortly after the tail exited the hangar we rolled over the hump and sped up momentarily. Next thing that happened the aircraft came to a stop. Lighting on the ramp area outside the hangar. Working hangar doors, flatten out the hump in front of the hangar. Synopsis Four air carrier Maintenance Technicians reported that when pushing a CRJ-200 out of the hangar they lost control and the aircraft made contact with another aircraft.
Time / Day Date : 201711 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Maintenance Status. Maintenance Type : Unscheduled Maintenance Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved : Inspection Component Aircraft Component : Trailing Edge Flap Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Improperly Operated Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person : Company Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Maintenance : Technician ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1494449 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Maintenance Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Other Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person : Company Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Maintenance : Technician ASRS Report Number.Accession Number . • 1494758 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events
Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Maintenance Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Object Detector. Person : Maintenance When Detected : Routine Inspection Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action Result.Aircraft : Aircraft Damaged Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Equipment / Tooling Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 We were assigned to an ETOPS PDC and to also troubleshoot 3 hydraulic leaks that were documented in the logbook. We positioned the stand using a spotter to get in place under the left trailing edge flap area. We proceeded to raise the stand in place, and through communication with the cockpit with handheld radios, we asked him to drop down the flaps. With the flaps at full extension, we proceeded to inspect for leaks. I was on the inboard Side of the flaps, and my partner was on the outside portion. She saw something leaking and asked me to come over and look at it. The hydraulics were still on at that point. I went to the outboard to look at it with her, and at that point, we heard a noise. We went and looked back at the inboard side, and saw a flap had touched the lift and caused damage. We then tried to drop down lift, and it would not start. We asked the man in the cockpit to raise the flaps, and he did so. He then came out and tried to start our lift, and it wouldn't. We finally got it to go down bleeding down the lift. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis Two Maintenance Technicians reported that the wing flaps of the aircraft made contact with under wing stands when the aircraft settled due to fueling.
Time / Day Date : 201710 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Aircraft Reference : X Make Model Name : BAe 125 Series 800 Flight Phase : Parked Component Aircraft Component : Wing Attachment Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Improperly Operated Person Reference : I Location Of Person : Company Function.Maintenance : Other / Unknown ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : Human Factors : Other / Unknown Analyst Callback : Attempted Events 1492960 Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Result.General : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Incorrect / Not Installed / Unavailable Part Primary Problem : Ambiguous Narrative: 1 Prior to the incident [we] where having a discussion near [the aircraft when I] bounced off the left vortilon. Line manager noticed that the vortilon was pointing in the opposite direction of the aircraft. [The company was notified]. Synopsis A Hawker 800 appeared to have a Vortilon pointing in the opposite direction.
Time / Day Date : 201710 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Weather Elements / Visibility : Fog Work Environment Factor : Poor Lighting Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC/ Advisory.Ground : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B737-800 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Taxi Maintenance Status. Maintenance Type : Unscheduled Maintenance Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved : Inspection Component Aircraft Component : Pitot-Static System Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Improperly Operated Person Reference : I Location Of Person : Gate / Ramp / Line Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Maintenance : Technician Qualification.Maintenance : Powerplant Qualification.Maintenance : Airframe ASRS Report Number.Accession Number . • 1492224 Human Factors : Other / Unknown Human Factors : Distraction Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : Taxi : Critical
Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action Result.FIight Crew : Returned To Gate Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 Aircraft gate return after vertical stabilizer pitot static cover was spotted from another aircraft at airport. A walk around check was accomplished [early in the morning] during heavy fog and limited visibility condition after the aircraft was wet washed during the early morning hours pitot cover flag was facing out the grey dark color side that made it harder to spot installation on aircraft. Synopsis Line Technician reported a B737 returned to the gate due to a pitot static cover not being removed prior to departure.
Time / Day Date : 201710 Local Time Of Day : 0001-0600 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : EMB ERJ 190/195 ER/LR Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved Component Problem : Improperly Operated Problem : Design Person Reference : I Location Of Person : Hangar / Base Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Maintenance : Other / Unknown Inspection ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1490507 Human Factors : Other / Unknown Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Maintenance Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Ground Personnel Events Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Other / Unknown Detector. Person : Maintenance Detector. Person : Ground Personnel When Detected : Routine Inspection Result.General : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Equipment / Tooling Contributing Factors / Situations : Incorrect / Not Installed / Unavailable Part Primary Problem : Incorrect / Not Installed / Unavailable Part Narrative: 1
Aircraft was in the hangar for maintenance when I walked by the tow bar and noticed that it had standard AN Bolts installed in the head where shear pins should have been installed. I then tagged out this E-190 tow bar. I then called the GSE (Ground Service Equipment) vendor for it to be fixed. They never showed up to fix the bar. I then went to the gate to get a serviceable bar. There I found 2 more tow bars also with AN bolts installed. I tagged these out as well and notified my supervisor and manager. Towards the end of the shift I noticed that all the tow bars that I tagged earlier in the night had the tags removed and were not fixed. I received a follow up email from management tonight saying that [the GSE vendor] had no supervisor on duty Sundays and that another employee from dayshift was going to check the bars. This is a serious safety issue someone is going to get hurt or Aircraft damage is going to happen. The GSE vendor employees seem to be inadequately trained, understaffed, and do not have the parts to fix the equipment properly. Also, the employees have a very hard time understanding what you are telling them is broken due to language barrier. There needs to be someone in charge on shift at all times at the Vendor GSE shop. The employees need to be retrained on the equipment they are maintaining and have access to parts. Need to communicate to employees that it is not all right to pull out of service tags without properly fixing the equipment. If the Vendor cannot properly maintain our equipment then it should be brought in house to the [company facility] GSE department. Safety needs to be made a priority at [our company]. Synopsis Maintenance reported that "unserviceable" tags were removed from several tow bars and, the tow bars were put back into service without being repaired.
Time / Day Date : 201710 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Dawn Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Maintenance Status. Maintenance Deferred : N Maintenance Status. Maintenance Type : Scheduled Maintenance Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved : Repair Component Aircraft Component : Interior Door Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person : Company Location In Aircraft : Lavatory Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Maintenance : Technician Qualification.Maintenance : Powerplant Qualification.Maintenance : Airframe ASRS Report Number.Accession Number . • 1489951 Human Factors : Time Pressure Human Factors : Workload Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Detector. Person : Maintenance When Detected : Routine Inspection Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Logbook Entry Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Logbook Entry Narrative: 1 I became aware of a sign off for a job on my aircraft that I verified was not done. [The] compliance supervisor requested a meeting to discuss the [report]. In this meeting, he presented to me a copy of [a] log page, which read as follows: "Accomplished operational check of fwd lav door. Couldn't duplicated problem. Precautionary lubricated hinges. 0k for service. Cleared MIC sheet. Permanent repair accomplished. " I Immediately became aware that this log page had been altered because I took a picture of the same log page [that] morning when I took the book back to the aircraft for departure. I also verified and took pictures of the hinge in question, which was worn, and no maintenance action was taken. I produced a picture of the same logbook page and showed it to [the compliance supervisor.] When I left the book on the aircraft, this log page read as follows: "Accomplished operational check of fwd lav door. couldn't duplicated problem. Precautionary lubricated hinges. 0k for service. Cleared MIC sheet." This same text is also in the [computer-based] system. Whoever altered the logbook could not alter the [computer-based] entry. I told [the compliance supervisor] that it was obvious that this log page was altered sometime after and that is called falsification Of aircraft records. In the sign off, [a maintenance personnel] clearly and falsely stated that he lubricated the hinges when in fact the hinge was worn and it required a more involved maintenance repair. The log page that [the compliance supervisor] produced also has the upper box crossed out when in fact the upper box as of today, is still not crossed out in the aircraft logbook. This aircraft is in [a different location] and I contacted maintenance over there and had them send me a picture of the log page. Falsification of aircraft records is a serious offense which compromises the safety of the aircraft and exposes the company to fines and penalties by the FAA. Our families fly on these airplanes. We are held to high standards and so should those that lead us. I will attach copies of all this paperwork as soon as I get home this morning. Don't know how to do it from company computers. I believe this occurred because [maintenance personnel] felt pressured by supervision. The supervisor on duty questioned me why the repair on the door hinge was not done [early in morning]. [After 30 minutes], miraculously, this discrepancy was fixed along with a sign off for a re-inspection of a cracked drain mast. All done from the comfort of the office. Synopsis A Maintenance Technician reported that a log book entry may have been signed as accomplished when the work was not done.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Work Environment Factor : Temperature - Extreme Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : MD-II Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Mission : Cargo / Freight Flight Phase : Parked Maintenance Status. Maintenance Type : Unscheduled Maintenance Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved : Installation Component Aircraft Component : Nose Gear Wheel Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Improperly Operated Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person : Company Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Maintenance : Other / Unknown ASRS Report Number Accession Number : Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Training / Qualification Events 1487260 Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Maintenance When Detected : Routine Inspection Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Human Factors
Contributing Factors / Situations : Incorrect / Not Installed / Unavailable Part Primary Problem : Incorrect / Not Installed / Unavailable Part Narrative: 1 Installed incorrect bearing part number in the inboard wheel half serial number aug92- 0739. Incorrect bearing part number M224749 was installed instead of correct part number 68462. Synopsis Maintenance reported they installed an incorrect bearing on an MD-II nose gear wheel assembly.
Time / Day Date : 201710 Local Time Of Day : 0001-0600 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Maintenance Status. Maintenance Deferred : Y Maintenance Status. Records Complete : Y Maintenance Status. Maintenance Type : Scheduled Maintenance Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved : Repair Component : 1 Aircraft Component : Waste Water Disposal System Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Improperly Operated Component : 2 Aircraft Component : Interior Door Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : I Location Of Person : Repair Facility Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Maintenance : Technician Qualification.Maintenance : Airframe Qualification.Maintenance : Powerplant ASRS Report Number Accession Number : : Situational Awareness : Time Pressure : Workload 1485617 Human Factors Human Factors Human Factors Human Factors : Communication Communication Communication Breakdown Breakdown.PartyI : Maintenance Breakdown.Party2 : Maintenance
Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Maintenance When Detected : Routine Inspection Result.General : Maintenance Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 Human Factors Logbook Entry Procedure Last night I was assigned by the Crew Chief to work Aircraft X. Aside from the routine check, It had a thrust reverser on number 2 engine problem, a problem with a lavatory door and a problem with the aft water drain mast. Crew Chief instructed me to NOT look into the engine problem or the drain mast due to lack of manpower. He instructed me to look into the lavatory door to see if it can be adjusted. During the check I also found a tire that was worn and needed to be changed. I completed the check, replaced the worn tire and looked into the lavatory door. The lavatory door was reported as "sticking" in flight. Our technical services department recommended we do a repair in accordance with Manual reference, because it was reported by a previous mechanic that the hinge was worn. I looked at the door, confirmed that the hinge was worn and advised the Crew Chief that I needed another mechanic to help comply with the repair. Crew Chief instructed me to leave it alone because it was time consuming and we did not have the additional manpower. So I proceeded to document my findings and continued with the deferral for the door. I also updated the drain mast problem with a continued deferral due to manpower. Supervisor was not satisfied with me not fixing the door or the drain mast. He confronted me about it and I explained to him that I was following Crew Chief instructions and that he needed to speak to the Crew Chief for an explanation. Next, I noticed that Crew Chief falsified documents by him signing Off on these items like if he fixed the door and reinspected the drain mast. It is my belief that the Crew Chief never went to the aircraft to look at these discrepancies. This is falsification of documents which is a serious offense. I verified that the hinge was worn and needed the document to be completed. It is my belief that this event occurred because of the pressure exerted on the Crew Chief by the Supervisor. Supervisor advised me that he had to explain to his superiors why the lavatory door and the drain mast reinspection were not addressed and that he now had to take the lavatory out of service and this might cause the flight crew to refuse the aircraft because the first class lavatory is the one that the pilots use in flight for security reasons. Assign the appropriate manpower for the task at hand. Synopsis Maintenance Technician reported a Crew Chief may have falsified documents by signing off items that were not accomplished due to time pressure.
Time / Day Date : 201709 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.SingIe Value : O Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B737 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Phase.Other Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person : Company Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Maintenance : Technician ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1485209 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Other / Unknown When Detected. Other Result.General : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 While following an aircraft under tow by the ramp, we were put in an uncomfortable situation because the ramp has no way to secure an aircraft in the event of an emergency. The ramp was towing an aircraft from the terminal to the maintenance base. We were following them towing an aircraft to the maintenance base as well. The ramp was instructed to hold. They didn't stop for reasons unknown. When the Tower questioned them, they stated that they were having trouble with their tug. They were then instructed to stop and acquire another tug. They complied with the Instructions to hold. As the situation started to heat up with the Tower and the ramp personnel, I could see that the ramp personnel were starting to become complacent and confused by the instructions by the Tower. I felt he could have easily sat the aircraft down without any
chalks to support the aircraft from moving. This here lies the danger! Since ramp typically performs aircraft movement without a brake rider, in the event of an emergency such as this, the aircraft could have rolled back unchalked and struck my aircraft putting myself and crew at risk. They do not carry chalks typically. Furthermore, we technicians don't carry chalks either because in the past the chalks have fallen out of the tug onto the taxiway and put all aircraft under movement at risk of serious injury if they were ran over. Thankfully they were able to convince the Tower that the tug was now operational and they could get it to maintenance base safely. Tower allowed them to continue their tow! If they would have complied with the Tower original instructions of setting the aircraft down and get another tug and the way that they appeared to be complacent, the story could have been completely different! Synopsis A Maintenance Technician reported observing Ramp personnel towing an aircraft without a brake rider and no ability to address tractor problems.
Time / Day Date : 201709 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.SingIe Value : O Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B787 Dreamliner Undifferentiated or Other Model Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Maintenance Status. Maintenance Type : Scheduled Maintenance Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved : Installation Component Aircraft Component : Gear Pins Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Design Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person : Hangar / Base Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Maintenance : Technician Qualification.Maintenance : Powerplant Qualification.Maintenance : Airframe ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : Human Factors : Situational Awareness Analyst Callback : Attempted Events 1482673 Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Maintenance When Detected : Routine Inspection Result.General : Maintenance Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 New 3787 aircraft arrived for post-delivery mod. The NLG drag brace pivot link hollow bolt will accept the gear pin snuggly from LH side while the correct locking hole is 3 inches
away and "unmarked." An inexperienced mechanic could accidentally place the locking pin in the wrong hole leading to gear collapse during ground testing damaging the aircraft and potentially injuring or killing persons in the vicinity of the gear. Apply sealant or similar mitigation to the LH inside bolt hole, mark correct hole with red outline. Has previous Engineering Authorization been implemented on the fleet? Synopsis 3787 Maintenance Technician reported the nose gear pin can mistakenly be installed into the NLG drag brace hollow bolt rendering the gear unsafe for ground testing.
Time / Day Date : 201704 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Phase : Parked Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved Component Aircraft Component : Accessory Drive Section : Installation Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Design Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person : Repair Facility Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Maintenance : Technician Qualification.Maintenance : Powerplant Qualification.Maintenance : Airframe ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : Human Factors : Training / Qualification Human Factors : Confusion Events 1482118 Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Maintenance When Detected : Routine Inspection Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Human Factors Manuals
Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 While assembling a GE C2 transfer gearbox, I noticed a possible discrepancy in the way the shroud was installed on adapter of horizontal gearshaft. The manual has a note that reads: With adapter aligned as it fits on the transfer gearbox, the housing shroud must be installed at the 6 0'clock position. My concern is I may have installed the shroud incorrectly on possible 5 gear boxes in the past several months while performing maintenance under check and repair guidelines. If they were installed incorrectly it would not be evident because a gear backlash check is not required which would alert the mechanic to the problem. We do perform a pressure test. The pressure test would not alert mechanic to shroud being installed incorrectly. It is possible to install it in the 12 o'clock position and not know it on a check and repair the gearbox. In question are only check and repair gearboxes. The 6 0'clock position is only identified in the inspection/check figure. Even there it is not clear. Add to note in subtask that reads along with current note: The flat on adapter housing is 6 0'clock position. Also add line to logbook to verify shroud in 6 0'clock position. Add this note after current line 7 which calls to install horizontal adapter gearshaft package in gearbox housing. Synopsis Maintenance Technician reported discovering the transfer gearbox shroud for a CFM56 engine could be installed upside down and may have occurred on previous gearbox assemblies.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : A319 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Maintenance Status. Maintenance Deferred : N Maintenance Status. Released For Service : Y Maintenance Status. Maintenance Type : Unscheduled Maintenance Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved : Repair Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved : Installation Component Aircraft Component : Pneumatic Valve/Bleed Valve Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : I Location Of Person : Gate / Ramp / Line Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Maintenance : Technician Qualification.Maintenance : Powerplant Qualification.Maintenance : Airframe Experience.Maintenance.Technician : 14 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : Human Factors : Troubleshooting Events 1481878 Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Maintenance Detector. Person : Maintenance
When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Ambiguous Narrative: 1 Crew reported at XA:45 that they had a slow to accelerate spool up on #2 engine. Also on descent they noticed an unusual vibration. Within minutes thereafter I inspected the #2 Engine for damaged blades NI and Exhaust. I noticed looking through the slim gap between the thrust reverser halves and the core of the engine bottom 6 0'clock position, there was a plug with a long shaft laying at the rear. I alerted the crew to hold boarding at about XA:52 because I would need to open the thrust reverser halves to inspect further. Originally I began looking at the borescope plugs but all plugs were installed and safetied. I noticed looking at the 5th stage check valve, that it was missing a plug as pictured. I inserted the plug and it was a match for the missing through bolt. I had another mechanic assisting me at the time, he took pictures and sent to Maintenance Control to alert of the finding and request support for operational checks once bolt was reinstalled. Maintenance Control notified me that a FADEC Motoring check done through the MCDU would be satisfactory. There was no difficulty reinstalling the through bolt and from the picture I have seen, it appears the bolt did not align with the flapper due to its failure and misalignment. I did not remove the valve for reinstallation of this through bolt, and in hindsight I should have done this as a precaution to inspect the valve for damage. I also would have been able to confirm that the butterfly indeed was aligned with the through bolt. Lesson learned! Bolt was installed; engines closed and secured and motoring check was satisfactory. Notified Maintenance Control approximately XC:OO work was complete and aircraft returned to service at XC:15 approximately. Synopsis A319 Maintenance Technician reported finding a check valve was missing a through bolt on an engine that was slow to spool
Time / Day Date : 201704 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : A319 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Maintenance Status. Maintenance Deferred : N Maintenance Status. Maintenance Type : Scheduled Maintenance Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved : Installation Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved : Inspection Component Aircraft Component : Powerplant Mounting Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Improperly Operated Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person : Company Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Maintenance : Inspector Qualification.Maintenance : Airframe Qualification.Maintenance : Powerplant Qualification.Maintenance : Inspection Authority Experience.Maintenance.Inspector : 16 Experience. Maintenance. Technician : 5 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person : Company Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Maintenance : Technician Qualification.Maintenance : Airframe Qualification.Maintenance : Powerplant Experience.Maintenance.Technician : 13 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1481875 1481877
Confusion Human Factors : : Situational Awareness Human Factors Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Maintenance When Detected : Routine Inspection Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Three lower engine mount pins found missing from sleeves on aft mount during heavy maintenance visit. During engine build up to bring engine up to QEC [Quick Engine Change] status prior to engine installation. The aft engine mount was installed on the engine. This entails putting the mount in place and inserting sleeves through the engine case and the bearings on the mount. Pins are then inserted in the sleeves and secured with metal straps on both sides of the pins. Bolts are then torqued to secure the straps in place. The mount installation was done months ago. I cannot recall this specific occurrence with certainty since it's a fairly common procedure here. These pins are fairly large. Even if the step of installing the pins was overlooked, the left over parts should have been obvious. Possible contributing factors: there were a lot of distractions in the hangar that month since it was new at the time with construction finishing touches going on, with a lot of activity moving in equipment and setting it up. Perhaps an added step to verify pins are installed at the end of mount installation would prevent a recurrence. Narrative: 2 I was summoned to my supervisor's office and was briefed Of the incident. The discussion was my involvement of the missing pin of the aft engine mount assembly. I viewed the enclosed pictures. The pictures had shown a view of the aft engine mount assy. The locking plate was installed through the sleeve with no pin. Just a darkened hole. That aft engine mount assy was installed and signed by me along with the inspectors stamp. It was at that moment when I had tried to recall the installation of that aft engine mount assy. Along with the implications of the missing pin. I had volunteered to work in the engine shop to assist in the engine buildup. [The aircraft] #2 engine was scheduled for replacement that evening. The atmosphere in the hangar and engine shop was a comfortable one. No stress nor concerns were felt that day. My first task was a visual one. What parts were needed, locate the parts and/or parts that are already installed whether safetying is required. I noted various fuel, oil & hydraulic drain lines that require installation. Once the drain lines were installed, I proceeded on to the next project. The fwd engine mount was then installed. An inspection representative was on hand to witness the torques and safetying measures of the fwd mount. The next component to be installed
was the aft engine mount. This is where my mind tends to fail me. I do recall lowering the aft mount and aligning the attach points. I also recall the pins, sleeves and locking devices for that mount being present prior to installation. I recall sliding the locking devices through the slots of the sleeves and then rotating them to align up the holes of the flanges and then securing them in place. Whether the pins were installed at the time I just do not know. But the installation of the aft engine mount was signed off by me. So in that respect I am responsible. Synopsis Two air carrier Maintenance Technicians reported that during a heavy check on an Airbus 319 it was discovered that lower engine mount pins were missing.
Time / Day Date : 201709 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Weather Elements / Visibility Light : Dusk Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier : Thunderstorm Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person : Company Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Maintenance : Technician Qualification.Maintenance : Powerplant Qualification.Maintenance : Airframe ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1480900 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Maintenance Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Ground Personnel Events Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Maintenance When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1
I was sitting in the tug, while awaiting push back clearance, the ramp manager came out to the tug to say he was taking his wing walkers and waived them inside. He never said why or if I was in danger. When I saw no one else on the ramp I went inside to operations and realized that the ramp had been closed due to lightning. I was never told while out on the ramp. While in operations we saw many flashes of lightning that sounded like they were right on top of us. The thunder was so loud you could feel it. We then heard over operations radio a [company] tug had been hit by lightning on Bravo and Quebec from our other tug crew that was right behind them on Bravo. After getting at least 30 lightning strikes within 3 miles of the airport, operations informed us the ramp was now open again. we got clearance from Ground Control and started our push, half way off the gate pushing the plane I heard what sounded like yelling, I turned around to see this wild crazy man running chasing us waiving his hands up in the air from the terminal. The operations guy was screaming that they needed the airplane for another flight. I called Ground Control to cancel our push and towed the plane back on the gate. With all the stress and confusion I missed the [aircraft] stop line, I called upstairs to my brake rider to release the brakes and the aircraft begin to roll a little, I called her back to set the brakes and at the same time the ramper put the chokes behind the nose wheel. The aircraft stopped right on the [aircraft] stop line. More lightning was approaching and we went into operations to wait until it was safe to put the jet bridge up. When I came into work the following day my supervisor asked me what happened. The stress of the lightning and thunder and being yelled at by the operations agent left me so confused that the tug cradle was open. I was trying to do my best under extremely stressful circumstances and extremely inclement weather. There was also confusion about what to do during lightning, I never received 10 mile warnings or 3 mile warnings or was told the ramp was closed. I had to seek out information instead of being informed by any sort of lightning or weather warning system. Tech operations management needs to have a severe weather plan in place prior to a lightning event. Using two people in the cab of the tug would also help with redundant procedures during times of off schedule operations and unexpected occurrences. Currently management only allows us one person in the cab of the tug to work the radio and drive the tug causing workload overload during stressful times. Synopsis A Maintenance Technician reported that while getting ready to tow an aircraft he was not informed the ramp was closed because of lightning strikes in the area.
Time / Day Date : 201709 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Regional Jet 700 ER/LR (CRJ700) Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Maintenance Status. Maintenance Type : Unscheduled Maintenance Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved : Repair Component Aircraft Component : Hydraulic System Pump Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Improperly Operated Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person : Hangar / Base Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Maintenance : Other / Unknown ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : Human Factors : Training / Qualification Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person : Hangar / Base Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Maintenance : Technician Qualification.Maintenance : Airframe Qualification.Maintenance : Powerplant ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events 1480407 1480409 Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy
Detector. Person : Maintenance When Detected : Routine Inspection Result.General : Maintenance Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 Aircraft Company Policy Procedure Working as a mechanic helper, removed electric hydraulic pump 3a from Aircraft X. [Ordered new] O-rings, [but] supervisor on duty instructed us to re-install old hydraulic pump back in the aircraft and also did not service hydraulic system. Learned next day by management aircraft was back in service. Supervisor did not followed established procedures. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis Maintenance Technician and helper reported being instructed to reinstall a part because replacement parts were not in stock.
Time / Day Date : 201709 Local Time Of Day : 0001-0600 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Regional Jet 900 (CRJ900) Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved Component Aircraft Component : Normal Brake System Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person : Company Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Maintenance : Technician Qualification.Maintenance : Airframe Qualification.Maintenance : Powerplant ASRS Report Number.Accession Number . Human Factors : Troubleshooting Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person : Company Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Maintenance : Technician Qualification.Maintenance : Airframe Qualification.Maintenance : Powerplant ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : Human Factors : Situational Awareness : Testing : Repair • 1480045 1480046
Person : 3 Reference : 3 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft.Other Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1480310 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Maintenance Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : Pre-flight Result.General : Maintenance Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 I followed tasks for installation of the main landing gear lower anti-rotation sleeve in accordance with CRJ 900 Aircraft Maintenance Manual (AMM) 32-11-400-802 pertaining to the aircraft serial number, this task called for the task to install breaks, which were followed In Accordance With (IAW) CRJ 900 AMM 32-43-26-400-80. This task then called for the bleeding of the brake system IAW CRJ 900 AMM 32-43-00-870-801, the task proceeded to lead to an ops and leak check Of the brake unit IWA CRJ 900 AMM 32-43-00- 710-801 during this task no leaks were found at the time, therefore ops and leak check was good at the time. With the lack of experience I have with this system I am unsure of the exact cause of the issue, I cannot see what I could have done differently. I followed my task to an exact measurement as I am told to always do as such. Narrative: 2 At the end of the night I had taxied the aircraft over the gate. I parked it and walked away from the aircraft without knowing that there was a leak on #1 brake that had happen when I taxied it in. Later I got a call from Maintenance Control saying that a pilot got hit in the face with skydrol. My other lead ran off to the gate to help the pilot and I taxied the other aircraft to the gate. The leaking brake and the fact that I did not know about until it was too late. Narrative: 3 Aircraft parked at gate, during aircraft inspection, Captain instructed me to be on the lookout for a hydraulic leak, as System Number 2 fluid was low. I heard systems powering up as I continued my walk around near the right wing tip, simultaneously noticing a puddle of fluid at the left landing gear. As I continued around the right wing toward the
empennage, my eyes began to burn intensely. Cause: Hydraulic misting from a brake line in the left landing gear assembly. I immediately closed my eyes, held my breath and moved back the way I came from. Returned and entered the jet way, grabbed water from the flight attendant and flushed my eyes. Captain called the EMT to the aircraft. I was transported to the ER for evaluation. If noticing low hydraulic system fluid during interior preflight checks, look for evidence of leaks before pressurizing hydraulic systems and also determine if maintenance was performed recently. Synopsis A Bombardier CRJ-900 Maintenance crew and a First Officer reported a hydraulic leak at the main landing gear. The First Officer reported of a burning sensation in his eyes.
Time / Day Date : 201709 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Aircraft Reference : X Make Model Name : Citation X (C750) Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Maintenance Status. Maintenance Type : Unscheduled Maintenance Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved : Repair Component Aircraft Component : Nosewheel Steering Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Improperly Operated Problem : Malfunctioning Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person : Hangar / Base Function.Maintenance : Technician Qualification.Maintenance : Inspection Authority ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1480038 : Troubleshooting Human Factors Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person : Hangar / Base Function.Maintenance : Technician ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1481165 Human Factors : Troubleshooting Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Maintenance When Detected : Routine Inspection Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Manuals Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft
Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Manuals Narrative: 1 [We] worked a repeat squawk on this aircraft for a nose wheel shimmy. We determined that the upper and lower nose gear torque links needed changed. My colleague was doing the maintenance and I was inspecting his work. On the previous write up for this squawk, another vendor had replaced all hardware for the torque links. I requested the upper and lower torque links and bushings from MCC (Maintenance Control Center) per CE750 CMM (Component Maintenance Manual) 32-20-02-XXXX. I originally requested items number 97 and number 315 for the upper and lower torque links. I later talked to MCC and they told me that they had ordered the torque links with the bushings already installed so they didn't order bushings. When we received the parts for the aircraft, I checked the paperwork for the torque links and noticed that the part numbers for the torque links didn't match the item numbers I had originally requested. I then looked in the CMM to verify that these were the proper parts. They were the complete assemblies including bushings per the CMM (items number 75 and number 300). There is no verbiage in the CMM that explains what the complete torque link assemblies contain. We removed the upper torque link from the aircraft and carefully set aside all hardware from the assemblies. We did the upper torque link first and reinstalled the new torque link with the hardware removed from the old assembly. We torqued all hardware per the maintenance manual and safe tied the nuts. We then did the same for the lower torque link. Both upper and lower torque links were free of play at this point when you attempted to move them by hand. We were later informed that there were spacers (item number 83) that were not installed with the assemblies. These spacers were not installed on the assemblies prior to us removing them for replacement. A video from the vendor who found this shows that there is a lot of play in the torque links. In the video however, the condition of the torque links is not as the vendor found them. He had obviously removed the cotter keys from the nuts and loosened the torque as there are no threads visible past the nuts. We had the nuts torqued and safe tied when we changed the torque links. The excessive play shown in the video was not present after we torqued the nuts. I believe that the component manual should contain a detailed description of what parts are included in the complete torque link assemblies. It's very easy to overlook the spacers on installation because the drawings could lead you to believe they could have been part of the torque link assemblies. Narrative: 2 [We] worked this aircraft. It was a repeat write up for nose wheel shimmy we determined that the upper and lower torque links needed replaced. The parts were placed on order MCC (Maintenance Control Center) changed the order to a different part number that already had the bushings installed. All of the other hardware was replaced by another vendor on a previous squawk. We removed the hardware and replaced the torque links, reinstalled the new torque links using the original hardware and torqued per the 750- maintenance manual. [We then] installed new cotter pins, checked the torque links and there was no play. The spacers that are missing were not installed when we replaced the torque links. The video sent in of the play was taken with all the hardware loose.
Synopsis Two Maintenance Technicians working on Citation X (C750) reported that items for the nose gear torque links were missing from a previous repair.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : MD-II Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : None Mission : Cargo / Freight Flight Phase : Parked Component Aircraft Component : Nose Gear Wheel Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Design Problem : Failed Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person : Hangar / Base Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Maintenance : Technician Qualification.Maintenance : Powerplant Qualification.Maintenance : Airframe ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : Human Factors : Troubleshooting Analyst Callback : Completed Events 1480029 Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Maintenance When Detected : Routine Inspection Result.General : Maintenance Action Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Manuals Narrative: 1 Aircraft Manuals Procedure General safety concern to raise awareness of recent safety of flight issue. Three incidents of nose wheel bearing failure on Company MD-II aircraft have occurred within the last 10 months [on three separate aircraft at 3 separate locations]. Through our software I do not see this happening prior to 11/XX/16. This issue happens at high speed during takeoff and landing. Douglas MD-II nosewheel installation and design is unique to all other Company fleet types. My observations are as follows: 1) MD-II nose wheel final torque is the lowest of all Company fleet 25ft/lbs. Initial torque IS also comparatively low. 2) Axle sleeve that contains both inner and outer bearing races (possibly migrates). 3) Tang washer part# ACG7220-I contains a small 90 degree lip. This lip must fully seat in narrow channel made by axle and axle sleeve. 4) Tang washer is a snug fit circumferentially (possibly cocks sideways during installation). 5) Safety bolt does not go through axle. Douglas MD-II nose gear design is cantered and set back further. During hard turns heavy side loads occur on the wheel and axle in the direction of the turn. Callback: 1 The reporter stated he's been in the industry over 30 years and this is the first time he has seen nose wheel bearings fail. The reporter stated since the beginning of the year he has seen 4 failures. The reporter also stated that flight crews would write this up as a nose wheel vibration or shimmy and the mechanic would find the nose wheel bearings completely destroyed and the wheel leaning against the strut. The reporter stated that he doesn't have any idea of what caused the failure and only suspects that the wheel shop is installing incorrect bearings. The reporter stated since he wrote the report he has changed his mind suspecting the tab washer as being a problem. Synopsis MD-II Maintenance Technician reported 3 incidents of nose wheel bearing failures.
Time / Day Date : 201709 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Altitude.AGL.SingIe Value : O Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B737 Next Generation Undifferentiated Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Maintenance Status. Maintenance Type : Scheduled Maintenance Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved : Repair Component Aircraft Component : Rudder Control System Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Design Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person : Repair Facility Reporter Organization : Contracted Service Function.Maintenance : Technician Function.Maintenance : Trainee Qualification.Maintenance : Powerplant Qualification.Maintenance : Airframe ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1479332 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Maintenance Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Maintenance Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy When Detected : Routine Inspection Result.General : Maintenance Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Manuals
Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 Was assigned to change the [rudder] weight out. My Coworker and I weighed the old weight and the new weight and were told to install. We informed them that the Structural Repair Manual (SRM) said if the weight was out of limits for corrosion to contact Engineering. Was told that we are going to change out per the Component Maintenance Manual (CMM). CMM does not have a chapter on replacing the weight but a chapter disassemble and reassemble. Reassemble is generic with no torque valves. Then on signing off the weight they signed off that a jig balance is not required per a Maintenance Engineering [Document]. Maintenance Engineering cannot give work instructions per our Maintenance Procedures Manual. Then they referenced the SRM for corrosion removal on the weight that weight and balance is not required because after you remove the corrosion the SRM tells you if you are in still in the design weight limits that a weight and balance is not required and also says if the weight is out of limits to contact Boeing Engineers (not to replace the weight). Then the other SRM reference says that a second static balance requirement is N/A but the table is under step F which says that the primary static balance requirement is required and to get the primary static balance requirement are met you must make sure that the secondary static balance requirements for the rudder are met. I also have a Company report which was rejected by a Engineer Manager stating that changing the rudder weight out is considered rework per the SRM and the rudder requires a balance by either a static balance jig procedure or a calculation procedure. Do a weight and balance procedure or add an AMM procedure to change out the weight without the weight and balance procedure requirement. Synopsis 8737 Maintenance Technician reported changing the rudder arm weight without performing a weight and balance procedure.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Maintenance Status. Maintenance Type : Unscheduled Maintenance Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved : Work Cards Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved : Repair Component Aircraft Component : Powerplant Mounting Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Improperly Operated Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person : Company Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Maintenance : Technician Function.Maintenance : Inspector Qualification.Maintenance : Powerplant Qualification.Maintenance : Airframe ASRS Report Number.Accession Number . • 1477782 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Maintenance When Detected : Routine Inspection Result.General : Maintenance Action Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I was working line maintenance and the aircraft was just in the early stages of right engine change. Mechanics were putting the new engine under wing when I informed them that we needed to check the run on torque of the barrel nuts first. We found one bad and had to change it, then I was not needed until they were close to full up with the engine. So mechanics torqued aft engine mount bolts and then moved to forward mount. I stood out by the C-duct since two mechanics were under the C-ducts to accomplish the torques. Just got complacent, normally the new bolts are always used and checked for the run on torques. Then they have the anti-seize applied along with washer, sitting there ready. The aft mount bolts were put on first and they had the washers, but two mechanics did the aft and two other mechanics did the front. Again, just got complacent after aft mount bolts installed correctly and didn't double check for washers on the front mount installation. Synopsis A Maintenance Inspector reported that the front engine mounts did not have washers installed.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Fractional Make Model Name : Citation X (C750) Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Maintenance Status. Maintenance Type : Scheduled Maintenance Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved : Repair Component : 1 Aircraft Component : Pressurization Outflow Valve Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Component : 2 Aircraft Component : Fuselage Panel Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Design Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person : Repair Facility Reporter Organization : Fractional Function.Maintenance : Technician Qualification.Maintenance : Airframe Qualification.Maintenance : Powerplant ASRS Report Number.Accession Number . • 1476928 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Detector. Person : Maintenance
When Detected : Routine Inspection Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 Aircraft Incorrect / Not Installed / Unavailable Part Procedure The two discrepancies written up on Aircraft X. 1) The aircraft would pressurize on the ground with engines off and APU running with APU bleed air selected on. 2) Thrust reverser red disable panel missing from loose equipment bag. The pressure problem was a repeat problem. In the previous sign off the cabin pressure controller was changed without an inspector block signed on the form. While performing trouble shooting I found the aircraft would pressurize to approximately 25 LBS differential at a rate of 6000 FPM. The cabin dump switch had no effect. The only way to depressurize the aircraft was to turn the APU air off. This created a dangerous situation when the cabin door was opened. I found a stuck check valve in the service air system. There was no service air to the left system which has the vacuum ejector to provide the vacuum for control of the outflow valves. The previous time the aircraft was "repaired" there can't have been an operational check performed. It cannot have worked. The pressure controller would have passed the bit check but not an actual functional check. Upon arrival to the aircraft I received a parts shipment. It contained an unfinished thrust reverser disable panel, it was un-drilled and had no attach hardware. I photographed it along Side of the correct part and requested the correct assembly be ordered. Maintenance control stated the correct part could not be ordered and to paint the panel red and install it on the aircraft. I contacted Cessna team x and got the correct part number and pinning kit part number as well. Cessna had 12 in stock. I provided maintenance control with proper numbers and was again asked to paint the incomplete panel red. I asked Maintenance Control to provide the correct parts or remove the MEL from my work package. It was removed. The correct part number was not in the "system" therefore it could not be ordered. As it turns out this was a repeat problem also. Previously the aircraft was written up for a missing t/r lock out access panel "white panel". The previous maintenance removed the red panel from the loose equipment, painted it white and installed it on the aircraft. A very high percentage of the aircraft I am assigned to repair have multiple repeat write ups. In every case the previous repair has a single signature on the form and no inspector signature. Where is the safety net? Why are the other maintenance providers not held to any safety standards? I am an employee of the ZZZ repair station, I am required to have an inspector on maintenance performed. I believe all maintenance performed should have a quality inspector present. The maintenance controllers should not pressure for a sign off. Having to stand my ground over piece of loose equipment is ridiculous. Synopsis CE-750 Maintenance Technician reported a pressurization problem was not repaired correctly and an incorrect part was supplied for a thrust reverser lock-out panel.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Weather Elements / Visibility : Turbulence Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Regional Jet 700 ER/LR (CRJ700) Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Maintenance Status. Maintenance Type : Unscheduled Maintenance Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved : Repair Component Aircraft Component : Cabin Furnishing Aircraft Reference : X Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person : Company Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Maintenance : Other / Unknown Qualification.Maintenance : Powerplant Qualification.Maintenance : Airframe ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1476062 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Maintenance Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Illness Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Maintenance When Detected : Routine Inspection
Result.GeneraI : Physical Injury / Incapacitation Result.Aircraft : Aircraft Damaged Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 Flight diverted to ZZZ for medical emergency [and] it was reported that the flight attendant fell when turbulence was encountered. The flight attendant and 2 passengers were transported to the hospital. The Dispatch Supervisor asked the Captain on a recorded phone line if the turbulence was severe and the Captain said No it was not severe. I picked up a roll over call from an open desk the Captain called and reported a broken armrest they were going to reposition the Aircraft to ZZZI. After talking with the supervisor it was decided to defer the whole seat and have ZZZI Maintenance repair it when it arrived since there was going to be no passengers on the flight. When the flight arrived in ZZZI I had arranged for Maintenance to meet the flight and repair the armrest. The Captain called in and talked to another Maintenance Controller and told him on a recorded phone line that he did in fact have a severe turbulence event prior to diverting to ZZZ with the medical emergency. It was reported to us by the Line Mechanic in ZZZI that in the lav there was blue juice on the ceiling and walls also there was soda pop on the ceiling in the main cabin area. None of this was reported to us in ZZZ by the crew. From what was reported to Line Maintenance it sounds like the beverage cart went airborne hit the Flight Attendant and hit [a] seat causing the damage. ZZZI Maintenance took some pictures showing the extent of the damage seatback pockets were filled with soda cans and bottles of alcohol that were picked up off the floor by passengers. The Captain flat out lied on how bad the turbulence was. I don't know if deferring the whole seat was the right decision with it going to be a reposition flight and no passengers it was the easiest thing to do after discussing it with the Supervisor. If the Captain would have been honest about what happened we would have gone in a completely different direction. I trusted that the information that was given to me was correct and that the Captain was being honest on what happened. I don't know if I had asked the questions again if he would have given the same answers. I think the Crew did not want to get stuck in ZZZ. First and foremost if the Captain would have been honest in ZZZ and told us he had severe turbulence we could have handled the Inspection there. It is getting tougher to work shorthanded in Maintenance Control and try to cover more than 1 desk, if the same crew calls in more than once they can end up talking to multiple Controllers. Even though all the questions had been asked I should have asked them again. Synopsis A Maintenance Controller reported that he received a report that a Bombardier CRJ-700 had minor cabin damage due to turbulence, later it was found to have severe cabin damage.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Altitude.AGL.SingIe Value : O Environment Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Maintenance Status. Maintenance Type : Scheduled Maintenance Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved : Work Cards Person Reference : I Location Of Person : Repair Facility Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Maintenance : Technician Qualification.Maintenance : Airframe Qualification.Maintenance : Powerplant ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1475025 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Maintenance When Detected : Routine Inspection Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I was working on lubing the MLG and nose landing gears. Started on the nose then I couldn't reach the 2 top grease fittings so I looked for a nearby small ladder. The other mechanics were using them so I waited until a ladder was available. After that I grabbed a small ladder and started lubing the two top fittings in the nose wheel. I finished my job and got a lead to double check my work. I then replaced 3 grounding wires. I changed a MLG one and two NLG wires. As I was changing the grounding wires I noticed a fitting that I thought could have used more grease so I greased it up further. As I was doing that the
lead tapped me on my leg and I came down and he gave me some corrosion inhibiting sealant that I needed for the MLG grounding wire. Then another mechanic needed my help and I helped him out. After that I finished the two front bonding wires in the nose. I went and double checked everything after I was done with a flashlight to see if I left any rags or anything up in the wells and didn't see anything. And I thought I put the grease gun back in the kit there was 3 total. Between that and getting distracted the grease gun could have got left up in the nose landing gear door. I don't know if the tool room has responsibility to check the kit to make sure that all 3 guns have been returned but if this was the procedure it could possibly avoid any future mistakes or human error. I always try to double check my work and I know the seriousness of this mistake. Synopsis Air carrier Maintenance Technician reported that he may have left a grease gun in the nose landing gear door.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.SingIe Value : O Environment Weather Elements / Visibility : Rain Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : A320 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Maintenance Status. Maintenance Deferred : Y Maintenance Status. Records Complete : Y Maintenance Status. Released For Service : Y Maintenance Status. Required / Correct Doc On Board : Y Maintenance Status. Maintenance Type : Unscheduled Maintenance Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved : Inspection Component Aircraft Component : Fuselage Skin Aircraft Reference : X Person Reference : I Location Of Person : Company Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Maintenance : Technician Qualification.Maintenance : Powerplant Qualification.Maintenance : Airframe ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1475019 Human Factors : Troubleshooting Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Time Pressure Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Maintenance Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Maintenance Analyst Callback : Completed Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy
Detector. Person : Maintenance When Detected : Routine Inspection Result.General : Maintenance Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Manuals Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 After working full shift, I was dispatched to ZZZ to recover aircraft. I was told it was a lightning strike event and was told to inspect aircraft and map out damage. During [the] drive I was contacted by maintenance control to confirm we were to document any damage and engineering was prepared to give 40 hour limit for each rivet damaged if needed. Contract maintenance found approx. 10 damaged rivets. I inspected aircraft on and off through the night into early morning due to periods of rain and wind. After completion, our duty time was nearing, so I documented that the inspection was completed and also documented additional damaged rivets totaling 50 in the aircraft ELB (Electronic Log Book). I was told by the maintenance controller that he would defer all damage himself and also release the airplane into service. It was my knowledge that the aircraft was to ferry [out] for repair. After rest period, I learned that the aircraft was currently flying subsequent flights around the country. When returning to work from days off, I was approached by my [Union Representative] that the aircraft was down in ZZZI for maintenance addressing the damaged rivets. Callback: 1 The reporter stated that he is an A&P mechanic and was called out to perform an inspection of an aircraft that had a lightning strike. The reporter stated the local FBO was used for a preliminary inspection and he completed the inspection and found numerous damaged rivets. He then confirmed with Maintenance Control the completion of all the required documentation. The reporter also stated the aircraft continued in service for a few more days until it was routed into a maintenance station where the required repairs were made. Synopsis Maintenance Technician reported that over 50 rivets were found damaged on an A320 due to lightning strikes. The aircraft continued to fly without proper maintenance action.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.SingIe Value : O Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person : Gate / Ramp / Line Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Maintenance : Technician Qualification.Maintenance : Airframe Qualification.Maintenance : Powerplant ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1473070 Human Factors : Other / Unknown Events Anomaly.No Specific Anomaly Occurred : All Types Detector. Person : Ground Personnel When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate Result.GeneraI : Physical Injury / Incapacitation Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Equipment / Tooling Primary Problem : Equipment / Tooling Narrative: 1 I need help with this potential serious safety risk that has been brought to my attention from both the aircraft mechanics and the garage mechanics. [Company] has changed the AS (Air Start Units) couplers from the old 16 ball to a new 8 ball coupler. There are several safety issues with the new coupler. I. The nuts on the hose clamps need to be cut and filed after the clamp is torqued down as they are cutting employees hands as they attach and detach the AS hoses. What we are asking for is to have the excess bolts cut and filed.
2. The aft hose clamp is too big and cannot be torqued down, as you run out of treads and it spins on the hose. Now you have 400 degree air at 90 to 400 PPM (Pounds per Minute) blowing through a silicone rubber hose that is even more slippery when at high temp being held in place by only I clamp. If that clamp fails now you have the potential for a serious injury or damage to an aircraft. The simple fix would be use a smaller clamp on the aft flange (the same size as the forward clamp would work). Then you could correctly torque it and securely attach the hose at a second point. 3. The clamps at the coupler have a nylon insert in the nut, but I think it would be better to use a steel nut on the clamp just like the clamp where the hose connects to the truck The fixes are easy, but there seems to be a big resistance from management/engineering to apply the suggested resolutions. Synopsis Maintenance Technician reported new hose clamps have been installed on air start units that are potentially a safety risk.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Regional Jet 700 ER/LR (CRJ700) Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Phase : Parked Maintenance Status. Released For Service : Y Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person : Hangar / Base Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Maintenance : Technician Qualification.Maintenance : Airframe Qualification.Maintenance : Powerplant ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1471065 Human Factors : Other / Unknown Events Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Maintenance Detector. Person : Maintenance When Detected : Routine Inspection Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I was on temporary duty at ZZZ. I installed a component on a CRJ700 and signed it off. I missed an RII (Required Inspection Item) on this install. It was not inspected by an inspector nor was an inspector involved with my installation of this component. I inadvertently overlooked the RII requirements in the Quick Reference Guide and the Procedures Manual. I was made aware of this via a phone call from a ZZZ Maintenance Supervisor.
Synopsis CRJ-700 Maintenance Technician reported replacing a part and not noticing that an inspection was required. The oversight was detected six days later by a Maintenance Supervisor.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : EMB ERJ 170/175 ER/LR Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved : Installation Component Aircraft Component : First Aid Equipment, with Medical Kit & Defibrillator Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Improperly Operated Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person : Company Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Maintenance : Other / Unknown Qualification.Maintenance : Airframe Qualification.Maintenance : Apprentice ASRS Report Number Accession Number : Human Factors : Situational Awareness Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person : Company Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Maintenance : Technician Function.Maintenance : Inspector Qualification.Maintenance : Airframe Qualification.Maintenance : Apprentice ASRS Report Number Accession Number : Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events 1465584 1465585
Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Maintenance When Detected : Routine Inspection Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 I just became aware that I may have received an EMK (Emergency Medical Kit) or kits that were incomplete. Also I may have inadvertently given my employees misinformation in reference to receiving the kits. [In the past] we had several cases of EMKs missing Atropine or Dextrose. At that time we knew about the issue ahead of time. The missing items were listed on the FAA form 8130- 3. We had an EA (Exemption Authorization) from the company authorizing us to install the kits with missing items as well as and FAA exemption letter. A few weeks ago, maybe a month, one of the inspectors brought it to my attention that an EMK had a yellow seal on it as well as a green seal. (Normally they come with just a green seal). The inspector asked me what that meant. I said "I am not sure what does the 8130 say". We looked at the 8130 and it stated the kit had been refurbished and there was no mention of missing items. I instructed him to go ahead and receive it because the signed FAA document (8130-3) said it was good. Also, we both remembered back in [the past] there were missing items that it was documented on the form at that time. So, in effect I guess you could say I set a precedence for the EMK receiving process then, to receive them if the 8130-3 for did not mention anything missing. So, through the last month or so we were receiving the EMK kits thinking that they were fine. Until last week when we received three kits that had the yellow tabs AND an FAA exemption letter in the box. The letter raised a red flag for us, so we put the three kits in quarantine, until we got clarification from the vendor. We found out today that we had, in fact, received incomplete kits. The vendor needs to document missing items on the 8130-3 form, or not send kits with missing items. I think they should also notify all other airlines that may be in the same situation as us. Anyone who receives parts needs to be aware that the yellow seal means "do not receive". Perhaps update the receiving/shelf life manual. Narrative: 2 Performing my duties as an Inspector for [the air carrier] I received and made serviceable six Emergency Medical Kits over the period of [four months]. I followed established and approved procedures in CFR's, FAR's, [company's policy manual] as well as the [company] Shelf Life Database to determine their suitability and serviceability for our aircraft fleet. Today, it has come to my attention that one of these units shipped from our approved supplier, was not a complete unit. Apparently, certain required safety items that are contained within the units were omitted. During my examination of the paperwork provided by [the vendor] specifically the Form 8130-3 and my visual inspection, was there any indication of a shortcoming with any of
these units. All of the units displayed a green serviceable factory seal placed on them by [the vendor] that was intact and showed no evidence of tampering. I deterr•nined at that time and with all the information available to me, that all of these units were correct and complete and made them serviceable for use on our aircraft. Lack of documentation provided by the vendor allowed incomplete emergency equipment to be installed and potentially used on our aircraft. Synopsis Maintenance personnel reported that they received emergency medical kits that were incomplete.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.SingIe Value : O Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B737 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Flight Phase : Parked Component Aircraft Component : Escape Slide Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Improperly Operated Person Reference : I Location Of Person : Company Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Maintenance : Technician Qualification.Maintenance : Airframe Qualification.Maintenance : Powerplant ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1465576 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Maintenance When Detected : Routine Inspection Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 It has been brought to my attention that the AMM (Aircraft Maintenance Manual) for removal Of door mounted escape slide does not render the escape slide "safe" until it is removed from the door. AMT's are then hand carrying the slide and clamshell armed through the airplane down air stairs to a workbench where there they disassemble the clamshell and pinning the bottle finally rendering the slide safe.
Somehow we must figure out a way to render the slide safe before actually working on the slide itself. With the girt bar dangling it has the potential to snag on an armrest or railing deploying the slide inadvertently causing injury or damage. Hand carrying the slide downstairs is also a trip hazard. Synopsis A Maintenance Technician reported that emergency slides are not rendered safe prior to removal on Boeing 737 aircraft.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8737 Undifferentiated or Other Model Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Maintenance Status. Maintenance Type : Unscheduled Maintenance Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved : Work Cards Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved : Inspection Person Reference : I Location Of Person : Company Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Maintenance : Technician Qualification.Maintenance : Powerplant Qualification.Maintenance : Airframe ASRS Report Number.Accesslon Number : 1465118 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Maintenance Communication Breakdown. Party2 : Other Events Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Maintenance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Bird / Animal Detector. Person : Maintenance When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate When Detected : Routine Inspection Result.GeneraI : Flight Cancelled / Delayed Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 The previous flight leg the airplane experienced a birdstrike landing. Maintenance accomplished a birdstrike inspection per Maintenance Manual. No Maintenance checkcard
was referenced. I asked 2 mechanics to accomplish Maintenance task 5. Afterwards management stated it was an unacceptable delay because General procedures manual allows the maintenance Manual references to be used in lieu of the workcards. True, unbeknownst to me GPM does state this. However, General procedures Manual states the workcard takes "precedence" when "conflicts" occur between documents. The 737 Maintenance Manual 5 and task card 5 have profound differences. The question now arises, if a mechanic chooses the Maintenance Manual reference over the workcard, how does he/she know the language of the Maintenance Manual is consistent with the work card. Furthermore, GPM technically allows Maintenance Manual references to be used instead of all common task workcard procedures like towbar disconnect or oil servicing. Synopsis A Maintenance Technician reported that maintenance took a delay because of the required inspection for a bird strike was not accomplished per work cards.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Person Reference : I Location Of Person : Company Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Maintenance : Technician ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1463934 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Training / Qualification Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Time Pressure Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Maintenance Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Other Events Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Maintenance When Detected .0ther Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airport Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Company Policy Narrative: 1 Aircraft Maintenance Technicians are finding many discrepancies with the Procedures Manual. When using the Procedures Manual and the provisions provided for me as a Towebarless Tow Vehicle (T I-TV) operator, the local management team are using terms such as, "subject to interpretation," "it depends," and "not necessarily." [In the manual].
Safety should be the number one goal. Upon addressing my concerns to the local management team, I was given a direct order to take the aircraft to the gate with each brake rider in aircraft and TLTV driver only. I presented programs in place to ensure safety. I was then denied at each request for clarification. As an Aircraft Mechanic, I understand changes with the times should occur for the better of the company. In my many years at ZZZ, I've seen many changes. The mindset evolves and the thought process modernizes. It appears to stop at [safety]. This airport has expanded and is busier than ever before. I've delivered aircrafts on dark rainy mornings when I couldn't see the taxiway lines. I've delivered aircraft in fog so dense I couldn't see more than five in front of me. The provisions in the Procedures Manual are there to help me do the safest aircraft delivery possible. Is cost really the reason I am being denied the provisions I've inquired about? When hooking the TLTV to the aircraft, I am now responsible for two pieces of equipment. The TLTV, and the multimillion dollar aircraft. Is asking for another qualified TLTV mechanic to ride along with me to help ensure the safest delivery possible? What I am asking for is clarification on these provisions. No one should risk their livelihood for a company shortcut so they can meet the budget. [Suggest] cost cutting in man power for safe aircraft movement. Provide the appropriate individuals needed to deliver an aircraft from the hanger to terminal safely. Synopsis A Maintenance Technician reported his safety concerns to management about towing aircraft without a second person to maintain vigilance.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B777-200 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved : Repair Component Aircraft Component : Interphone System Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Door Area Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Maintenance : Technician Qualification.Maintenance : Powerplant Qualification.Maintenance : Airframe ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1463933 Human Factors : Time Pressure Human Factors : Troubleshooting Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Maintenance Communication Breakdown. Party2 : Other Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Ground Personnel Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Maintenance
When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Following the Crew Chief's instruction, I went to the aircraft. I was informed by a cabin crew member that the cabin interphones were not operating correctly. I called the office to request technical assistance. A Technician arrived to assist me approximately 5 minutes later. After discussing the issue with the Captain, it was determined that the fault was with the chime at LI Door. As a result the Customer Service Manager falsely accused me of making the aircraft late on purpose. This is a troubling trend the Managers have recently adapted towards aircraft departures. This has an unsettling after effect whether intended or unintended by management to lower actual write ups in the logbook to thus lower maintenance delays subsequently impeding with the safety of the travelling public whom have put their safety and the safety of their loved ones in our hands. Furthermore, through intimidation, as well as impediment with legal and compliant documentation required for aircraft departure, myself as well as every mechanic here at this airline's number one responsibility is to the safety of all onboard. The unsettling truth for Maintenance at Company is non-maintenance management attempting to dictate how maintenance is performed. Allow us to have the time to properly maintain aircraft. Synopsis 3777 Maintenance Technician reported that while attempting to repair a cabin interphone problem, a Customer Service Manager accused him of intentionally delaying the flight.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B767-300 and 300 ER Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved Component Aircraft Component : Speedbrake/SpoiIer Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Improperly Operated Person Reference : I Location Of Person : Hangar / Base Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Maintenance : Technician : Work Cards ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1463245 Human Factors : Training / Qualification Events Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Maintenance Detector. Person : Maintenance When Detected : Routine Inspection Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Chart Or Publication Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Manuals Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Chart Or Publication
Narrative: 1 While I was performing a test of the VOR accuracy, Systems mechanics started the process of locking out the spoilers on both wings as part of the normal docking procedures. This procedure involves 3 mechanics; 1 mechanic on each wing and 1 mechanic in the flight deck responsible to run all 3 hydraulics systems at the same time and moving the flight controls to the needed positions. The mechanic in the flight deck is there as a safety measure to secure the flight controls so they will not be inadvertently moved. The mechanics on each wing wait for the Spoilers/Speed Brakes on each wing to hydraulically move to the full up position and then they install locks on the mechanisms to prevent them from coming to the down and stowed position. I was sitting in the captain's seat going through of my work card which involves aligning the IRUs (Inertial Reference Unit) but does not require hydraulics when the Systems mechanic assigned to the flight deck entered, sat in the first observer's seat and announced to me what he was preparing to do. He asked if their assigned duties would interfere with mine, since no hydraulics were required on my work card, I said it was 0K for them to do theirs in conjunction with mine. After getting the proper clearance, he pressurized all 3 hydraulics systems and moved the Speed Brake handle to the full up position and sat there securing the flight controls while the other 2 mechanics were on both wings installing the lockout devices. About 10 minutes later, I finished my work card and the 2 mechanics on the wings were up under the Ailerons on each wing installing the locks. The last step on my work card stated to remove power from the IRUs. I asked if this would affect his task and we could find nothing to indicate this would be an issue. After I turned off the last of the 3 IRU switches, the Speed Brake handle automatically moved all the way to the down and locked position. This un-commanded flight control movement happened while 2 mechanics were working on each wing in an extremely dangerous area and had no warning. This was a near miss not an injury. Causes: 1. Work Cards need to have warnings about un-commanded flight control movement. 2. Add a step to Work Cards to tag out the Auto Speed Brake breaker GII on the pilots overhead (P 11) panel. This breaker disables the Auto Brake Actuator ensuring the Speed brakes will not move unless manually commanded to do so. 3. Add a step to the Aircraft Maintenance Manual procedure to say "Open Auto Speed Brake breaker GII on the PII Panel. When Work Cards are being assigned on all 767 aircraft, there is a possibility of uncommanded flight control movement anytime the aircraft is put into air mode and pulling the GII breaker is a proactive measure to ensure the workers safety. Synopsis 3767 Maintenance Technician reported that when the last of the 3 IRU switches were turned off the spoilers were un-commanded to the down position while maintenance personnel were installing up-locks to the spoilers.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8767-300 and 300 ER Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Maintenance Status. Maintenance Deferred : N Maintenance Status. Released For Service : Y Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved Component Aircraft Component : Powerplant Fuel Control Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Design Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person : Company Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Maintenance : Technician Qualification.Maintenance : Powerplant Qualification.Maintenance : Airframe Experience.Maintenance.Technician : 20 : Repair : Inspection ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1462481 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Maintenance Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Maintenance Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Maintenance When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate Result.General : Maintenance Action Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 Aircraft Procedure Aircraft X experienced and rollback and unresponsive throttle immediately after takeoff. It was found that the rib of the thrust reverser cowl had rubbed through the CDP line going to the fuel control. This lead to an engineering order to set up all of the same series motors on the 767 fleet to be inspected for the same problem. I was sent with another technician to ZZZ to inspect Aircraft X. On inspection of both engines we determined that both lines had slight wear and out of caution both should be replaced. We addressed the clearance issue and replaced both lines. The Engineering Revision Authorization (ERA) stated that ETOPS would not be affected. So we signed off the work and released the aircraft. The aircraft made two flights before this was found and had a re-inspection in ZZZI to verify that the repair was good. Looking back being that both technicians were ETOPS qualified we should have made a call to [Maintenance] to verify what we were reading to be correct. Synopsis An ETOPS qualified Maintenance Technician signed off work and released a Boeing 767 for service not realizing that it required an inspection sign off also.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Local Time Of Day : 0001-0600 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Aircraft Reference : X Make Model Name : A321 Flight Phase : Parked Maintenance Status. Maintenance Type : Scheduled Maintenance Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved : Work Cards Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved : Inspection Person Reference : I Location Of Person : Company Function.Maintenance : Technician ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1461547 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Maintenance Communication Breakdown. Party2 : Other Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Maintenance Events Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Maintenance When Detected : Routine Inspection Result.General : Maintenance Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Company Policy Narrative: 1 I was assigned Aircraft X. The aircraft was scheduled a service check and a tap test which requires an inspector. The inspector was notified of the tap test so I continued with my service check and other scheduled maintenance items. At approx. XA30, the inspector was done with the tap test. He had stamped the job card but not the sign-off card associated with the tap test. I informed him that he's responsible for signing/stamping his work performed. He replied, "Inspectors don't stamp sign off cards", "accomplish by blocks", or "enter things in [the computer]".
I informed my Supervisor of the situation, and he stated I will call the inspection department. I also went into the [Procedures Manual] for classification. I printed out some information and presented it to my supervisor. A few hours later, the supervisor came to me with feedback from the inspection department, stating "they don't have to stamp/sign the sign off cards", we have an internal (local) agreement with the inspectors. I responded the [Procedures Manual] states "whoever performed the task must stamp/sign for their work". He replied, "well this is how we do it here and it always been that way" and I responded, " that doesn't make it right" we must follow the [Procedures Manual]. I was then told to sign the sign off card but I declined. My supervisor stated, "I'm ordering you to sign it" but once again I declined. Later, he approached me with the sign off card and it was stamped by the inspector (accomplished by block), the mechanic (entered in [computer] by block), and the supervisor (work was completed block) which was the way the I interpreted it from the [Procedures Manual]. The event occurred for several reasons but I will address two. There has been a hot topic between mechanics and inspectors signing off the proper blocks on sign off work cards. According to the [Procedures Manual] it explains how to stamp off blocks and defines who is responsible for the work. I do understand "accomplished by" vs "checked by" blocks but this particular sign off card states "the person who did the inspection" which is a "-8 must stamp accomplished by block". It also has three different places were "a person who was associated with the task" has the ability to stamp. Also the [Procedures Manual] states that inspectors can stamp "accomplished by" blocks. The other reason is complacency, learned behavior, and lack of recognition towards company policies [Procedures Manual] is unacceptable. The [Procedures Manual] is in place for us to follow and get clarification when there's an interpretation concern. We are not to assume and make our own local agreements or deviate from company polices/procedures. The [Procedures Manual] can became vague in some instances as well. The Job cards, sign-off cards, and tally sheets must be consistent or match each other station wide. To avoid multiple recurring issues of this event, I suggest we revisit the [Procedures Manual] and highlight (red ink) the department (maintenance, inspection, or supervisor) responsible or add a note as a "remember" who is responsible for what blocks. My suggestion is whomever performs a task must stamp/sign it off completely. This includes job cards, sign off cards, and tally sheets. I would also recommend adding a "checked by" block for the inspectors to stamp on [computer] sign off cards. This will eliminate the high confusion between the mechanics and inspectors. The inspectors must be held accountable and show consistency on all paperwork. For instance, when an inspector accomplishes an inspection and the job card has "accomplished by" and "checked by" blocks for both individuals to stamp, who is solely responsible for the sign off card associated with the job card? This will better assist records and QA audits in my opinion. Synopsis Maintenance technician reported an inspector refused to sign-off the final document associated with the work per the procedures manual.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B737-800 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Phase : Parked Maintenance Status. Maintenance Type : Unscheduled Maintenance Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved : Inspection Component : 1 Aircraft Component : Pneumatic Ducting Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Component : 2 Aircraft Component : Flap Control (Trailing & Leading Edge) Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Improperly Operated Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person : Gate / Ramp / Line Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Maintenance : Technician Qualification.Maintenance : Powerplant Qualification.Maintenance : Airframe ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1461536 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Maintenance Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person : Gate / Ramp / Line
Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Maintenance : Technician ASRS Report Number.Accesslon Number : 1461548 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Maintenance Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Vehicle Detector. Person : Maintenance When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate When Detected : Routine Inspection Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action Result.Aircraft : Aircraft Damaged Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I was assigned to Aircraft X. Per flight crew request of an open Aircraft Maintenance Logbook item of possible right wing overheat condition. When I arrived at the aircraft, the flight deck was occupied by the flight crew. After conferring with the flight crew and reviewing the log book, it was determined an inspection of the right hand wing leading edge flaps was required to check for possible damage. The flight crew agreed to operate the flight controls while we technicians positioned ourselves under the wing. Only after I established communication with the flight crew through wireless headset did I ask the flight crew to extend the leading edge flaps to full extension. We were under the right wing facing forward monitoring the movement of the leading edge flaps preparing for our inspection of the leading edge of the right wing. Moments later we heard a noise. We then noticed that the trailing edge flaps had continued to extend. The noise we heard was the sound of the flap track fairing tail cone coming In contact with the safety railing of our maintenance vehicle. We did not intend for the trailing edge flaps to be extended and were unaware that the trailing edge flaps were being lowered behind us. I communicated to the crew immediately to stop flap movement upon becoming aware of this damage. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis Maintenance technicians reported that after requesting the flight crew to lower the leading edge flaps, the trailing edge flaps were also extended, making contact with ground equipment.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : A300 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Mission : Cargo / Freight Flight Phase : Parked Maintenance Status. Maintenance Type : Unscheduled Maintenance Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved : Repair Component Aircraft Component : Hydraulic Lines, Connectors, Fittings Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Design Person Reference : I Location Of Person : Company Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Maintenance : Technician Qualification.Maintenance : Apprentice Qualification.Maintenance : Airframe ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1460910 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Maintenance Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Maintenance Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Maintenance When Detected : Routine Inspection Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Incorrect / Not Installed / Unavailable Part Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Contributing Factors / Situations : Manuals Primary Problem : Procedure
Narrative: 1 Flexible braided line above gear failed. Replaced with line from [another] hydraulic kit. Asked [service] desk if I should submit a report because of part number difference of lines. I was told no because line replacement is covered under AMM 20-23-XX-XX. After aircraft departure and before arrival at next station I called maintenance control and spoke to Mr. X quoting AMM ref and page 50 para 6 in ref to time tracking on a line replacement with a line from our kit. I was told it was a permanent repair and no [follow up item] would be issued. Next morning I involved my Manager with my concerns that some kind of tracking should be in place for the installation of correct part number line. At first Mr. X insisted it was a permanent repair. We agreed that I submit a safety report for clarification. Ultimately deemed repair as temporary and maintenance control issued a [follow up item] for 20 cycles. Not exactly sure how to prevent when two maintenance controllers and an engineer told me it was a permanent repair only to find out otherwise upon my own insistence. Synopsis A Maintenance Technician reported of some confusion if a replacement hydraulic line was a permanent or temporary fix.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZZ.Airport State Reference : FO Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B767-300 and 300 ER Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Person Reference : I Location Of Person : Company Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Maintenance : Other / Unknown ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events 1460014 Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : MEL Detector. Person : Other Person When Detected. Other Result.General : Maintenance Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Contributing Factors / Situations : Manuals Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Ambiguous Narrative: 1 I was made aware by the Human Resources department of an ongoing investigation into a potential procedural misstep I may have made. Flight had a biohazard situation with a passenger haven given birth in the 1st class cabin. Vendor maintenance reported to the
aircraft on arrival. I received the phone call in Maintenance Control and queried the mechanic about the situation. I referenced a manual's Biohazard Contamination section and followed the procedures for aircraft dispatch. The mechanic reported that there was minimal evidence of bodily fluid stating that the crew and attending medical help contained the contamination to blankets and coverings. The universal infection kit was used during the flight. I asked the vendor if there was a cleaning crew that was qualified to clean a biohazard spill. He responded yes. I requested that the crew clean the area per procedures which he confirmed was completed. I requested that the contaminated articles be disposed of per the manual procedures. He confirmed that would be complied with. He suggested that the seat be deferred and the area be cleaned precautionary on return to the U.S. The seat cushions were removed and secured and the seat was deferred per MEL. The current manual revision requires that the row of seats be removed from service, a fact I am not sure was required in this version. If so, I did not defer the seat next to it per procedure. This is a common occurrence and falls directly in Maintenance Control's responsibility. Due to many factors including the severity of the biohazard issue i.e. minor cut to birth and even death on an aircraft there needs to be some latitude to the level of response needed to return the aircraft to service. The manual requires research in 2 other manuals providing cleaning procedures but does not give any definitive solution to allowing the aircraft to depart stations. The manual needs clarity and provide Maintenance with a full understanding when the clean-up is complied with and the aircraft can return to service at all stations other than the class 1 stations it references. Synopsis Maintenance Controller reported being informed of possibly mishandling a biohazard cleanup and MEL entry into the aircraft logbook after a passenger had given birth on the flight.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Cadet Mark 10 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Takeoff Maintenance Status. Maintenance Deferred : N Maintenance Status. Records Complete : Y Maintenance Status. Released For Service : Y Maintenance Status. Required / Correct Doc On Board : Y Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved : Inspection Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved : Installation Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved : Repair Component Aircraft Component : Powerplant Fuel Distribution Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Failed Person Reference : I Location Of Person : Repair Facility Reporter Organization : Personal Function.Maintenance : Technician Qualification.Maintenance : Avionics Qualification.Maintenance : Repairman Qualification.Maintenance : Airframe Qualification.Maintenance : Powerplant Qualification.Maintenance : Inspection Authority Experience.Maintenance.Avionics : 1 Experience. Maintenance.lnspector : 20 Experience.Maintenance.Repairman : I Experience.Maintenance.Technician : 34 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number . • 1458676 Events
Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Maintenance Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Other / Unknown When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action Result.Flight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Result.Flight Crew : Inflight Shutdown Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 This aircraft had the engine overhauled by a shop on our field, and was delivered to a second shop which installed the engine and propeller on the aircraft. The airplane was brought to me to complete the annual inspection. During the aircraft inspection the engine installation was evaluated, inspected with no defects observed. At the time Of my inspection the throttle linkage was installed, bolted and cotter keyed. The aircraft went back to the shop which originally installed the engine for a new generator to be installed. This action would not have tampered with the throttle linkage. The plane arrived back at our shop where I completed final checks, and engine operations with no defects observed. Several people during this time frame witnessed the cotter key installed. The aircraft flew about 7 hours prior to throttle linkage disconnecting on takeoff. The aircraft completed an off field landing with no injuries or damage to the aircraft. The conclusion of myself and the other shop is that when the cotter key was installed it cracked allowing over time and engine vibration to fail. This caused the cotter key to fall out and the nut to back off from vibration. Also, the aircraft being worked on at several different shops could have effected quality assurance. In the future I will not have aircraft that are being worked on in several different shops at the same time. Also, more attention to detail may have caught the cotter key being cracked when the engine was installed. Tamper seal was applied to these bolts after installation, which may have allowed the damaged cotter key not to have been seen by me during my inspection. Synopsis Technician reported that seven hours after completing an annual inspection, a Mooney M- 10 throttle disconnected resulting in an off field landing.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZZ.Airport State Reference : FO Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8777-300 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Maintenance Status. Records Complete : Y Maintenance Status. Released For Service : N Maintenance Status. Required / Correct Doc On Board : Y Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved : Inspection Person Reference : I Location Of Person : Company Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Maintenance : Technician Qualification.Maintenance : Powerplant Qualification.Maintenance : Airframe ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1457583 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Maintenance Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Other Events Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Illness Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Weight And Balance Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Detector. Person : Maintenance Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Company Policy Narrative: 1
I was on duty when I was informed Aircraft X diverted to ZZZZ. The aircraft was overweight on landing and required a repetitive maintenance inspection accomplished prior to each departure. We have no approved maintenance providers in ZZZZ, and I could not locate a proper phone contact number. After a while we found a mechanic who could work on the aircraft, provided he give us his information so we could fill out a Provisional Approval form. Management constantly pushed me to worry about getting the aircraft out of ZZZZ, They said the provisional approval could be done after the aircraft left. I finally spoke to a mechanic, told him what we needed and sent a Provisional Form for him to fill out. I also told him that before the aircraft leaves, he must talk to me before signing of the log book. He needed to work under my direction and guidance. I was informed that the aircraft was signed off. At this time I told management and the flight dispatcher that the mechanic must sign off the log book with my name and number before it leaves. We still had no information on this mechanic except for his name. I repeated this to no avail to several Maintenance Operations personnel. They said we would worry about it later. I said we were in violation of several policies. No one seemed to care except for getting the aircraft out of ZZZZ. Cause - Management pressure to get the aircraft out of ZZZZ before all proper procedures were accomplished. We need to follow published procedures even if it means cancelling a flight. Management need to stop pushing us to violate our company policies and procedures. When an issue is brought to their attention, they need to respond to the situation properly, instead of ignoring the concerns of the [maintenance technicians] involved. Synopsis Technician reported that a Boeing 777 made an unscheduled landing at a non- maintenance station and required a repetitive maintenance inspection. Proper documentation procedures were not followed.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Large Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Maintenance Status. Maintenance Deferred : N Maintenance Status. Records Complete : N Maintenance Status. Released For Service : Y Maintenance Status. Required / Correct Doc On Board : N Maintenance Status. Maintenance Type : Scheduled Maintenance Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved : Repair Component Aircraft Component : Main Gear Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Improperly Operated Person Reference : I Location Of Person : Company Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Maintenance : Technician Qualification.Maintenance : Powerplant Qualification.Maintenance : Airframe ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1456057 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Maintenance Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Other Events Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Maintenance Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Detector. Person : Maintenance When Detected : Routine Inspection Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken
Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Primary Problem : Company Policy Narrative: 1 During the night shift line, we were assigned to Aircraft X with an A check and Right Hand Main Landing Gear strut leak. Maintenance procedure called out for by Tech services was to be accomplished prior to further flight due to the fact that time for the issued [maintenance] items had expired. We could not accomplish the procedure on the line. I inspected the Right Hand Main Landing Gear strut seal and found no evidence of leakage. I signed off [the maintenance] repetitive inspection. I did not sign Off [the maintenance action of] Tracking purpose or Permanent Repair. On returning to work on [a later date I] went into safe to find out how the items had been signed off. Only to find out that my number had used to sign off both [maintenance actions]. Entries where entered into safe with my employee number by [other personnel]. Safe entries do not match logbook entries. The company needed the airplane in haste and items were falsely documented. Disregard for safety and procedures outlined in the aircraft maintenance manual and [problems] occu rred. Safety and in accordance with procedures should be top priority over flight schedules. Basic mgmt. skills should be used to allocate priority aircraft to hangars when needed. Synopsis A Maintenance Technician reported that items were falsely documented using his employee number.
Time / Day Date : 201704 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B777-200 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Maintenance Status. Maintenance Type : Scheduled Maintenance Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved : Repair Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved : Work Cards Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved : Inspection Component Aircraft Component : Main Gear Wheel Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person : Gate / Ramp / Line Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Maintenance : Technician Qualification.Maintenance : Powerplant Qualification.Maintenance : Airframe ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1455674 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Maintenance Communication Breakdown. Party2 : Other Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Maintenance Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Maintenance
When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Company Policy Narrative: 1 Aircraft X arrived at the gate late. I was assigned to perform an ETOPS inspection at the gate. Immediately upon arrival I was informed by the crew chief that we had a #4 MLG tire change. The gate agents immediately were asking when they could board the aircraft. I told the gate agent that they could not board at the time because we had a tire change and an ETOPS inspection to perform. During this time I was told by the crew chief that a Manager called and said we will not hold up boarding for a tire change. I continued on with my ETOPS inspection during which a tire change crew completed the tire change of #4 MLG tire. I went downstairs and assisted in their clean up and removed the gear pins as per the work card. No event occurred but a question arose. I was told that passengers do not equate to effecting CG of an aircraft per [Company] manuals. FAA guidelines for averaging passengers and their carry on luggage which equates to 1901bs per person, that would make 267 people moving into the aircraft while a tire change is being performed at approximately 26 tons. Would they not affect CG just as much as cargo? Boeing has since revised yet [company] in their constant changes to the Procedures Manual and work card changes have systematically overlooked new safety warnings and revisions and common sense in maintenance at the gate putting aircraft and mechanic personnel at risk. The warnings that Boeing have in place are that no crew or passengers are to be on aircraft during a tire change. They previously did not have gate operations taken into consideration in the writing of their manuals. They have systematically corrected that. Can we possibly get a review because this situation is still ongoing with tire changes at the gate? Airbus has their limits and charts unrelated to the work cards. But they are therein the AMM. Common sense about the basic operations and warnings of an aircraft were neglected to be heard by management concerning CG. Was told if it isn't on paper it can be done even though all warnings are about affecting the CG of the aircraft (i.e. cargo and refueling). Trying to hurry up the aircraft as to not take a delay by management. Review the warning and revisions put out by the aircraft manufacturers especially pertaining to safety of aircraft and personnel. Especially since management is constantly at the gate pushing you to complete your work fast, so there is no delay, leaving no room for the simplest of mistakes. Possibly have a manual guide lining maintenance and airport gate operations especially since we now have younger people entering the AMT workforce who do not have the prior knowledge us veteran AMTS do. Synopsis Maintenance Technician reported that the company did not follow the manufacturer's guidelines concerning loading passengers while maintenance was performed on the aircraft.
Time / Day Date : 201704 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : A321 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Final Approach Flight Phase : Initial Approach Airspace.CIass B : ZZZ Maintenance Status. Maintenance Type : Unscheduled Maintenance Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved : Inspection Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved : Repair Component Aircraft Component : Hydraulic System Lines, Connectors, Fittings Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Design Problem : Failed Person Reference : I Location Of Person : Hangar / Base Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Maintenance : Technician Qualification.Maintenance : Powerplant Qualification.Maintenance : Airframe ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1453836 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Maintenance Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Other Analyst Callback : Completed Events
Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Maintenance When Detected : Routine Inspection Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 Aircraft Human Factors Manuals Procedure A321 was on a flight to ZZZ. The pilot called the tower to report a loss of Yellow Hydraulic system indication. The pilot reported they needed to land immediately. Thankfully with the proper procedure of QRH in his manual, the pilot shut the system off as per procedure and landed safely. That day the aircraft was removed from service and brought to the hangar for maintenance. I worked on the aircraft and was afraid to find out what I found. The inner O-ring on the drain valve for the yellow reservoir system had failed and leaked all the hydraulic fluid during flight. Maintenance action was taken and removed and replaced the drain valve as per the AMM (Aircraft Maintenance Manual). I also reported this to Maintenance Control and they responded that the investigation was already on going and an Engineering Order was going to be issued. It has been three months and no response or change has been made. The event occurred because of Airbus engineers testing the A321 did not notice the failed O-ring on the drain valve of the hydraulic systems. The drain valve does not have a cap or a very strong shut-off valve as the 737 does (which is safety wired). The reason for the failed O-ring is because AMTs drain the hydraulic system when the system is overfilled in the servicing procedure. The constant draining of the reservoirs causes the inner O-ring to fail over time and with the residual head pressure of the Hydraulic system causes the O- ring to break at any given time. This is nobody's fault but the aircraft engineers who might have missed the failed testing of hydraulic fluid pressure system. There is a temporary fix for leaking valves under a Company Repair Document, but does not fix the ongoing problem. This can be fixed but has not been brought up or supported enough to fix it. My suggestions to relieve the problem or prevent the Airbus hydraulic system from losing all the fluid during flight or taxi is to change all drain valves to a shut off valve (spring- loaded closed) like the 737 Hydraulic system, or install a cap and safety cable to the cap to prevent the loss of fluid if the drain valve inner O-ring fails. If the cap is installed, there should be a periodic check on the valve performance and leak detection as per the maintenance card. As an A&P Mechanic for over a decade I have heard the term from FAA inspectors that "the FAR rules are written in blood." I believe that this is the time in this day in age that we need to right the FAR rules without the use of blood as ink. It is a new generation of aircraft and a new set of qualified AMTs in the field of aviation. It is my job to help the industry be safe and compliant with rules and regulations given in the world of aircraft as the safest transportation of travels. I would like and need help from the proper set of engineers and team members to support me on the awareness of this drain valve issue on the Airbus 321. Callback: 1
The reporter stated that the hydraulic system reservoirs have a drain fitting that depends on an O-ring to maintain the fluid in the reservoir. The reporter described the fitting as a "bayonet" type fitting. It's a push in and rotate one quarter turn to lock open, then rotate it back to release it in the closed position. There is an O-ring on the small end of the drain valve that is constantly opened and closed due to the fact that the center (yellow) system is constantly serviced because it supports a lot of the ground operations. The reporter also stated that very often when the system is over serviced and some fluid needs to be drained, the drain valve is opened to drain the excess fluid while the system is still pressurized. Releasing the pressure through the drain valve often upsets the O-ring causing the valve to leak when it's closed. The temporary fix for this is to put an extra cap on the drain valve which is good for three days until a permanent fix can be accomplished. He feels that as the Airbus aircraft age, these O-rings are getting weaker and he would like to see a more permanent fix. He sees about two or three of these every week that leak excessively. Synopsis Maintenance Technician reported that the inner O-ring for the hydraulic reservoir drain valve on the A321 continues to fail.
Time / Day Date : 201702 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8757-200 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Phase : Parked Component Aircraft Component : Wheel Assemblies Aircraft Reference : X Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person : Hangar / Base Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Maintenance : Lead Technician Qualification.Maintenance : Airframe Qualification.Maintenance : Powerplant ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1453271 Human Factors : Time Pressure Events Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Illness Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Maintenance When Detected. Other Result.GeneraI : Physical Injury / Incapacitation Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Incorrect / Not Installed / Unavailable Part Contributing Factors / Situations : Equipment / Tooling Primary Problem : Incorrect / Not Installed / Unavailable Part Narrative: 1 While removing and replacing the #2 Main Wheel Assembly (MWA), [two maintenance technicians] were notified that there was no nitrogen available on the field. It was later discovered that a NOTAM was put out on this situation but no one was notified. While searching for nitrogen, the Ground Handler found some across the field. When he brought it to the airplane, [the maintenance technicians] found that the adapter was not set up for
our tooling. While attempting to remove the adapter that was excessively tight, the wrench slipped off the nut and impacted [one of the technician's] finger causing a laceration. He then applied First Aid, finished the MWA replacement. Went back into the airplane to change the bandage at which point he was directed to go to the doctor to get further care which resulted in 3 stitches, a tetanus shot, and anti-biotic. He then remained in ZZZ while [the other technician] continued the trips until the aircraft returned. [The injured technician] then finished the mission and returned home. Synopsis A Maintenance Supervisor reported that during a tire change on a Boeing 757, a Technician lacerated his finger when attempting to change a fitting on a nitrogen cart.
Time / Day Date : 201705 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B737 Undifferentiated or Other Model Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Maintenance Status. Maintenance Type : Unscheduled Maintenance Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved : Installation Component Aircraft Component : Wheel Assemblies Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Improperly Operated Person Reference : I Location Of Person : Repair Facility Reporter Organization : Contracted Service Function.Maintenance : Technician Qualification.Maintenance : Airframe Qualification.Maintenance : Powerplant ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1453267 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Maintenance When Detected.Other Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1
Found damaged #2 main landing gear tire, replaced #2 wheel assembly. After removing installed wheel and before transporting it back to [the] hangar, failed to deflate the damaged tire in accordance with the Aircraft Maintenance Manual NOTE "...deflate the tire to prevent transporting an inflated tire. " Tire assembly was shipped still inflated. Synopsis A Maintenance Technician reported neglecting to deflate an unserviceable landing gear tire prior to shipping it.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.SingIe Value : O Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : A320 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person : Company Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Maintenance : Other / Unknown ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1453264 Human Factors : Training / Qualification Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Maintenance Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Ground Personnel Events Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Other / Unknown Detector. Person : Observer When Detected .0ther Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airport Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Contributing Factors / Situations : Staffing Primary Problem : Company Policy Narrative: 1 Over the last week, we are noticing ramp moving aircraft on the hangar ramp without wing walkers, [the company] has procedures in place, as a result of aircraft damages in the past for the same operation. Now we have two groups working in the same area using two different manuals, contradicting processes. As soon as this operation started we
informed the management personnel of the differences. 10 days into it, no changes have been made. Also Airport ops docs and the FAA /ATC document governing the movement of aircraft on taxiways and runways are being totally violated. The aircraft are being towed around without the required Anti-collision not turned on. Missing brake rider in the cockpit, not using aircraft radio for communication with ATC. The ops docs governing this, specifically calls out for Licensed Aircraft Mechanic to be the only person allowed outside of the Pilots, to accomplish this function (moving aircraft on taxiways and runways). These two groups are randomly drug tested. Normally the rules governing implementation of new procedures, requires a Safety Risk Assessment involving front line employees who were directly affected by the change. Once an airplane is released into service at the hangar, this group that moves an airplane are allowed to operate controls, switches, pressurize, etc. where is the chain of command. Undocumented work/operation is being performed. Will the mechanic be held responsible because of his "release", two FAA licensed group were in control of the aircraft throughout in the past, while the pilot and the mechanic remain part of the aircraft record, what FAA controlled document covers this other work group. Synopsis A Maintenance Technician reported that ramp personnel are moving aircraft with unauthorized personnel and not following procedures.
Time / Day Date : 201705 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Regional Jet 700 ER/LR (CRJ700) Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Maintenance Status. Maintenance Deferred : N Maintenance Status. Released For Service : N Maintenance Status. Maintenance Type : Unscheduled Maintenance Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved : Repair Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved : Testing Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved : Installation Component Aircraft Component : Switch Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Maintenance : Technician Qualification.Maintenance : Powerplant Qualification.Maintenance : Airframe Experience.Maintenance.Technician : 19 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : Human Factors : Troubleshooting Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events 1453038 Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Maintenance
Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Maintenance When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate Result.GeneraI : Flight Cancelled / Delayed Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 The pilot reported in logbook that the right engine fire shutoff push buttons switch guard was loose. I inspected the switch guard and determined that the switch guard must be removed and reinstalled to correct loose discrepancy. At that time, all the required circuit breakers were pulled in accordance with the Aircraft Maintenance Manual (AMM), and all electrical power was removed from the aircraft. From there, I loosened the switch assembly, and reinstalled the switch guard and re-tightened switch assembly as required by AMM. With aircraft power still off, I then flipped open switch guard and operated switch. Both mechanically checked good. The next step was to ops test the right engine fire shutoff switch, with power on. Aircraft power was turned on, and circuit breakers pushed in to perform ops test, to make sure right engine fire shutoff switch tested good electrically. At that time, I operated the right engine fire shutoff push button switch, and almost simultaneously, bottom frame/bracket on the switch guard, slipped downward over top of the right engine fire bottle push button switch. I then noticed the green light was extinguished on the fire bottle switch, and EICAS display right engine fire bottle low pressure and right fire bottle messages. It was determined that the right engine fire bottle discharge button had been inadvertently depressed, and the fire bottle discharged. I then made a log book entry describing fire bottle discharge and associated EICAS messages displayed. From there, I proceeded to repair the loose switch guard again, using same practices as described previously in this statement. However, upon disassembly of the switch, it was determined that the locking tab on switch, that is pressed against switch housing when tightening, was not in position to ensure complete security of switch. Installing a switch guard usually does not require the complete removal of the switch assembly, unless you can't achieve proper security of switch. The initial installation of switch previously described, did not reveal that the switch was not secure. The second ops test, with power on, however did reveal that the switch was just loose enough to let switch guard slip downward, causing fire bottle deployment. I have [many] years of experience in the maintenance, installation, and repair of Korry switches. I have never experienced where there switch appears to be secure, but becomes loose after a few times of ops checks. My experience is that if the locking tab is not in proper position, the switch will not tighten at all, and switch guard will not hold in place and falls out of place. Synopsis CRJ-700 Maintenance Technician reported the engine fire bottle was inadvertently discharged when the fire shut-off switch was tested.
Time / Day Date : 201705 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : AS 355 Twinstar Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Mission : Ambulance Flight Phase : Parked Maintenance Status. Maintenance Deferred : Y Maintenance Status. Records Complete : N Maintenance Status. Released For Service : Y Maintenance Status. Required / Correct Doc On Board : N Maintenance Status. Maintenance Type : Unscheduled Maintenance Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved : Testing Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved : Inspection Component Aircraft Component : Airspeed Indicator Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : I Location Of Person : Hangar / Base Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.Maintenance : Lead Technician Qualification.Maintenance : Inspection Authority Experience.Maintenance.Lead Technician : 20 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1452718 Human Factors : Troubleshooting Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly. Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Maintenance Anomaly. Deviation - Procedural : FAR
Detector. Person : Maintenance When Detected : Routine Inspection Result.General : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Incorrect / Not Installed / Unavailable Part Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 During a 91.411/.413 test, it was found the aircraft airspeed indicator (ASI) was faulty with a major case leak. A technician took a repaired ASI unit from the parts room and installed it. The aircraft was then put back in service with no work order or log entry of the instrument change. Later that day, a pilot informed me that the airspeed range markings were incorrect. I verified this and removed the aircraft from service. Our chief pilot, Director of Maintenance (DOM) and operations were informed that the aircraft was out of service. A replacement part was then ordered by the DOM. The aircraft remained out of service for the duration of the week. Upon my return [8 days later], I noticed the aircraft's flight record container was missing from the maintenance shop. I then found the airspeed indicator with the wrong range markings on a technician's tool box. The old faulty airspeed indicator had been reinstalled and the aircraft was back in service. There was no work order or log entry for any of the above maintenance including any post installation system checks. The aircraft is currently in service with a faulty airspeed indicator. This action does not follow procedures in the repair station manual for proper return to service record completion, replacement of faulty components and does not comply with established FAR part 43 and manufactures system leakage limits. The aircraft is a light twin helicopter and is used as a part 135 passenger transport/air ambulance. Management seems indifferent to the possibility of a certificate suspension and fines due to improper service and maintenance records. Synopsis Maintenance Technician reported an AS355 helicopter airspeed indicator was replaced with an incorrect unit. The original faulty indicator was reinstalled and the aircraft returned to service without documentation.
Time / Day Date : 201705 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8777-200 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Maintenance Status. Maintenance Type : Scheduled Maintenance Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved : Repair Component Aircraft Component : Fuel Tank Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Improperly Operated Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person : Hangar / Base Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Maintenance : Technician Qualification.Maintenance : Airframe Qualification.Maintenance : Apprentice ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1452210 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Training / Qualification Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Maintenance Communication Breakdown. Party2 : Other Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person : Hangar / Base Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Maintenance : Technician ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1452211 Events Anomaly.Deviation Anomaly. Deviation - Procedural - Procedural : Hazardous Material Violation : Published Material / Policy
Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Other / Unknown Detector. Person : Maintenance When Detected : Routine Inspection Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 The fuel tank vendor created an unsafe situation for [our company] their employees and their fleet. Aircraft X had a fuel tank entry job done outside the hangar. The mishap was noticed by myself as I drove along about a hardstand and half away where the airplane was parked I could smell a very strong fuel smell that indicated a massive leak. Being the Safety [manager] I headed over to the airplane to find out what was going on. I snapped [a] bunch of pictures and what I saw was the following items, I) The airplane was not grounded as there are no grounding points on any of the hardstands. 2) The plane was being vented and the electric motors used to draw the air were right under the plane instead of using a 100ft hose. 3) The generator used to power everything was within 50ft of the open tank and not 100ft 4) Their vehicle was parked and running within 30 ft of the open fuel tank. The man lift that they used was not in place yet under the open fuel tank. 5) There was no barrier or roping off of the airplane. [Maintenance Personnel] was made aware of this issue through an email. [They] replied back to me with a reassurance that this problem would be corrected and I thanked him. The problem here is [this Maintenance Personnel] always reassure me of issues in the manner of safety but never actually handles them he shows an interest in handling Aircraft maintenance and safety at the cheapest price and in the fastest way disregarding quality and safety. While this may sound like a complaint it is not it is a sad fact. However knowing the results of how [this Maintenance Personnel] would handle the situation especially with the potent smell I feel it is my duty to always notify prior and offer the manager the ability to self-correct. It is a right I would like to have bestowed upon myself and so I honor it with others even so if it is not honored with me. [Other maintenance personnel] was concerned how the vendor did this work "[company X]." He voiced concerns that was the company to be held responsibility and follow the [maintenance manual]? I told him [I] Believe the company is to follow the [maintenance manual] because the fleet is governed by the [maintenance manual]. None of the fuel tank work cards were filled out including what was required for follow up actions. I myself never saw the airplane in work but I asked [the other maintenance personnel] where the airplane located was? He said it was located on spot of Aircraft X. Right there I know we have a problem because the spot has no grounding points anywhere. Especially no tested spots as required. This leaves an explosion hazard that risk all of my [team] members and myself. This cannot continue. The cheapest price if so and the speed of the job puts everyone at risk this argument gets tiresome. From the smell of the last Aircraft X the smell could only have been that strong if there was a significant amount of fuel still In the
tank. I have worked airplanes before fuel tank wise and know this especially for an airplane outside not in an enclosed hangar. The other question is why not required [documents] are accomplished on the airplane. These are important [documents] and were put in place for a reason why is a vendor exempt from them but when we take over we have to comply with these [documents] yet they are not even complete? Narrative: 2 Upon coming on duty I found out that Aircraft Y had maintenance done on the RH tank regarding an MEL out of time with [this specific model] restriction. I received turnover from afternoon [Company X] had not accomplished any [maintenance] task cards for Tank Permit or Tank Unit replacement. I had task [documents] printed, unscheduled maintenance cards. Upon showing the [Company X] Representative, he stated not being trained by [our company] on use of those cards. They always use [Maintenance Manual] procedures. I continued to check the [Company Document] and found yet another [maintenance document], that was required for record keeping. My understanding from [Company Document] is that task cards take precedence. Clarification would be helpful. "[Company Document] [stated that our company] can arrange with a Maintenance Provider (MP) for the performance of any maintenance, preventative maintenance, or alterations. However, this does not relieve [our company] of the responsibility for the performance of the maintenance, preventative maintenance, or alteration of its aircraft, including airframes, aircraft engines, appliances, emergency equipment and parts thereof, in accordance with this manual.." Synopsis Maintenance Technicians reported that on a Boeing 777 an outside vendor created an unsafe situation when working on open fuel tanks.
Time / Day Date : 201705 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Dash 8 Series Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Flight Plan : IFR Flight Phase : Parked Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Dash 8 Series Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Ferry Flight Phase : Takeoff Maintenance Status. Maintenance Type : Scheduled Maintenance Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved : Work Cards Component Aircraft Component : Elevator Aircraft Reference : Y Problem : Improperly Operated Person Reference : I Location Of Person : Hangar / Base Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Maintenance : Technician Qualification.Maintenance : Airframe Qualification.Maintenance : Powerplant ASRS Report Number Accession Number : Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events 1452198
Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action Result.Flight Crew : Rejected Takeoff Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Manuals Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Aircraft X was due to leave ZZZ to reposition to storage. Aircraft X had issues so it was decided that Aircraft Y had to be released to take its place. I was tasked to release Aircraft Y to make that happen as soon as possible. I went through all paperwork and verified it was all present as well as complete. After releasing the aircraft, Aircraft Y was forced to abort its takeoff because the pilot was unable to rotate. Later mechanics found that speed tape that was applied to the elevator spring tabs per a storage Workcard X had been removed from the lower surface of the elevator but not the top causing the aborted takeoff. After the aborted takeoff Aircraft Y returned to the ramp area and by this time Aircraft X was fixed and it repositioned as originally planned. For several days there was no word what happened to Aircraft Y. [3 days later] I was again asked to release Aircraft X. That was when I saw the corrective action that stated speed tape had been removed and the removal from storage workcard had been issued. As I audited the paperwork all steps were stamped as completed. Workcard X final step for repetitive storage inspections is to reapply the speed tape to all flight controls. I have been back from workman's comp for a couple weeks and this being the first aircraft I have released from storage I should have read every step of the workcard. Which I did not, I only verified steps were stamped as complete. What this workcard does not ever mention is a follow up Workcard Y which has the steps to remove aircraft from storage. So Workcard X final step has a mechanic cause a discrepancy by applying the tape to flight controls but does not give any guidance to create a discrepancy or issue the removal from storage workcard before flight. Had there been such a step it would ensure the discrepancy caused by adding the speed tape would have been addressed. This gives the impression that work is complete when in reality by completing Workcard X you are making the plane unairworthy. Further, speed tape had been removed from all other flight controls and the bottom side of the elevator. So someone had been instructed to remove all tape applied to the aircraft for storage and for whatever reason did not remove the tape from the upper surface of the spring tabs. I went back to read the work cards in question to try to find out how the tape could have been missed when I had released the aircraft the first time. A step on the repetitive storage inspection Workcard X and the initial storage Workcard Z stating to ensure the removal from storage workcard has been issued to the aircraft would have made it impossible for this situation to occur. Also due to the fact that we rarely have planes in storage making the workcards mandatory would give a further level of protection.
Synopsis DHC-8 Maintenance Technician reported an aircraft aborted takeoff due to lack of elevator control. Speed tape was discovered on the topside of the elevator spring tabs.
Time / Day Date : 201705 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Flight Phase : Parked Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved Component Aircraft Component : Trailing Edge Flap Aircraft Reference : X Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person : Hangar / Base Reporter Organization : Contracted Service Function.Maintenance : Inspector Qualification.Maintenance : Inspection Authority Inspection ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1451188 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Maintenance Detector. Person : Maintenance When Detected : Routine Inspection Result.General : Maintenance Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Manuals Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1
[Maintenance paperwork] was generated for Aircraft X to oversize the "inboard carriage to torque tube attach holes and hardware" on the left wing inboard flap assembly. The [paperwork] was started but never completed due to non-routines being written for pitting corrosion on internal mating surfaces of the torque tube and corrosion on the attach fitting. The decision was made to change the flap. When the part was routed to the vendor only the corrosion on the fitting was listed on the repair order. The torque tube pitting non-routines and the incomplete [paperwork] were not mentioned. Without this information the vendor did not separate the torque to look for corrosion nor did they complete Service Bulletin 737-57A1314 and re-part mark the flap to MPN 113a2100-53A. This is not an unusual occurrence. Often when a component is removed from an aircraft and multiple discrepancies are written against it the only information on the repair order is what the mechanic writes on the back of the removal tag. Create a procedure so that all known discrepancies written against a component are sent with the repair order to the vendor. Synopsis A Maintenance Inspector reported that a Vendor did not accomplish the repairs required due to lack of information.
