ASRS Database Report Set NMAC Incidents Report Set Description. .............A sampling of reports that reference near midair collision events. Update Number.. .....13 Date of Update ........................... ..Februmy 28, 2018 Number of Records in Report Set............... Number ofNew Records in Report Set ...............50 Type of Records in Report Set.. .........For each update, new records received at ASRS will displace a like number of the oldest records in the Report Set, with the objective of providing the fifty most recent relevant ASRS Database records. Records within this Report Set have been screened to assure then- relevance to the topic.
National Aeronautics and Space Administration Ames Research Center Moffett Field, CA 94035-1000 TH: 262-7 MEMORANDUM FOR: Recipients of Aviation Safety Reporting System Data SUBJECT: Data Derived from ASRS Reports The attached material is furnished pursuant to a request for data from the NASA Aviation Safety Reporting System (ASRS). Recipients of this material are reminded when evaluating these data of the following points. ASRS reports are submitted voluntarily. The existence in the ASRS database of reports concerning a specific topic cannot, therefore, be used to infer the prevalence of that problem within the National Airspace System. Information contained in reports submitted to ASRS may be amplified by further contact with the individual who submitted them, but the information provided by the reporter is not investigated further. Such information represents the perspective of the specific individual who is describing their experience and perception of a safety related event. After preliminary processing, all ASRS reports are de-identified and the identity of the individual who submitted the report is permanently eliminated. All ASRS report processing systems are designed to protect identifying information submitted by reporters; including names, company affiliations, and specific times of incident occurrence. After a report has been de-identified, any verification of information submitted to ASRS would be limited. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration and its ASRS current contractor, Booz Allen Hamilton, specifically disclaim any responsibility for any interpretation which may be made by others of any material or data furnished by NASA in response to queries of the ASRS database and related materials. Linda J. Connell, Director NASA Aviation Safety Reporting System
CAVEAT REGARDING USE OF ASRS DATA Certain caveats apply to the use of ASRS data. All ASRS reports are voluntarily submitted, and thus cannot be considered a measured random sample of the full population of like events. For example, we receive several thousand altitude deviation reports each year. This number may comprise over half of all the altitude deviations that occur, or it may be just a small fraction of total occurrences. Moreover, not all pilots, controllers, mechanics, flight attendants, dispatchers or other participants in the aviation system are equally aware of the ASRS or may be equally willing to report. Thus, the data can reflect reporting biases. These biases, which are not fully known or measurable, may influence ASRS information. A safety problem such as near midair collisions (NMACs) may appear to be more highly concentrated in area "A" than area "B" simply because the airmen who operate in area "A" are more aware of the ASRS program and more inclined to report should an NMAC occur. Any type of subjective, voluntary reporting will have these limitations related to quantitative statistical analysis. One thing that can be Imown from ASRS data is that the number of reports received concerning specific event types represents the lower measure of the true number of such events that are occurring. For example, if ASRS receives 881 reports of track deviations in 2010 (this number is purely hypothetical), then it can be known with some certainty that at least 881 such events have occurred in 2010. With these statistical limitations m mind, we believe that the real power of ASRS data is the qualitative information contained in report narratives. The pilots, controllers, and others who report tell us about aviation safety incidents and situations in detail — explaining what happened, and more importantly, why it happened. Using report narratives effectively requires an extra measure of study, but the knowledge derived is well worth the added effort.
Report Synopses
ACN:1509624 (lof50) Synopsis A CI-60 flight crew reported a NMAC situation with a flight of 4 F16's. Pilot reported ATC's lack of advisories to them, and failure to provide separation. ATC reported following local SOP, and in compliance with FAA orders and directives. ACN: 1509474 (20f50) Synopsis A320 First Officer reported an NMAC on arrival into EWR with a light aircraft that was not in contact with ATC. ACN: 1508856 (30f50) Synopsis A light sport pilot reported an NMAC in the pattern at AVQ airport. ACN:1508755 (40f50) Synopsis 8737 Captain reported an NMAC with a single engine aircraft shortly after departing MIA. ACN•. 1506681 (50f50) Synopsis A320 Captain reported a TCAS RA while turning final on a visual approach to Runway 19R LAS. ACN: 1506623 (60f50) Synopsis Experimental aircraft pilot reported a near-mid-air-collision with a C150 on final approach to a non-towered airport. ACN: 1505348 (70f50) Synopsis GA pilot reported a NMAC with turning traffic climbing from the parallel runway at Ryan Airfield. ACN: 1505053 (80f50) Synopsis Super Decathlon pilot reported inadvertently climbing into Class C airspace while avoiding what was probably a UAV in the vicinity of OMN airport.
ACN:1505037 (90f50) Synopsis BE-33 pilot reported an NMAC with an ultralight aircraft on final approach to HQZ airport. ACN: 1503538 (100f50) Synopsis DA-20 pilot reported an NMAC at a non-towered airport with a non reporting aircraft. ACN•. 1503509 (11 Synopsis Helicopter pilot reported a near mid air collision that required an evasive maneuver to avoid collision. ACN: 1503286 (120f50) Synopsis ATC Tower Supervisor and Local Controller reported a near-mid-air-collision. ACN: 1503278 (130f50) Synopsis Luscombe 8 pilot reported entering the crosswind at an uncontrolled airport while another aircraft entered the pattern unannounced for the crossing runway. ACN: 1502952 (140f50) Synopsis 3737 Captain reported a late turn off of proceeding aircraft resulted in a go around, then evasive action was necessary on the climb to avoid a collision with a helicopter. ACN•. 1502266 (150f50) Synopsis Approach controller and turboprop pilot reported a near miss with a helicopter during visual approach. ACN•. 1502261 (160f50) Synopsis C172 instructor pilot reported an altitude deviation and NMAC after the student pilot inadvertently climbed above the assigned altitude.
ACN:1501248 (170f50) Synopsis A B737 Captain reported a near miss with a drone. ACN: 1501117 (180f50) Synopsis C172 flight instructor reported a NMAC with a UAV at 6500 in the vicinity of LAS airport. ACN•. 1501114 (190f50) Synopsis C172 flight instructor reported an NMAC after departing AAO. ACN: 1501091 (200f50) Synopsis C172 reported taking evasive action to avoid a midair collision departing 39N airport. ACN•. 1501085 (21 Synopsis General aviation pilot reported an NMAC while flying in the pattern at GIF. ACN: 1500686 (220f50) Synopsis CE-680A Captain reported a NMAC with a UAV on approach to MKE Runway 25L. ACN•. 1500518 (230f50) Synopsis PA28 pilot reported a NMAC with a UAV on approach to 119. ACN: 1500289 (240f50) Synopsis BE35 pilot reported a NMAC with a UAV at 7500 ft in the vicinity of TRL airport. ACN: 1499737 (250f50) Synopsis PA28R pilot reported a NMAC in the pattern at LHM airport.
ACN: 1499604 (260f50) Synopsis A Small Transport Captain reported a NMAC with a UAV operating in Boston Class B airspace without ATC knowledge. Pilot reported incident to A90 Departure, and Massachusetts State police. ACN: 1499027 (270f50) Synopsis An Approach Controller and air carrier flight crew reported a near mid air collision due to poor ATC coordination on a departure from a satellite airport. ACN: 1498594 (280f50) Synopsis GA flight instructor reported a near mid-air collision during a training flight near MKY. ACN: 1498437 (290f50) Synopsis CRJ-900 Captain reported a NMAC with a UAV on approach to CLT. ACN•. 1498021 (300f50) Synopsis K90 TRACON Controller reported an unidentified VFR aircraft was a NMAC with a VFR aircraft the Controller was working. ACN: 1497968 (31 of50) Synopsis SR20 pilot reported an NMAC with a Beechcraft Baron in the vicinity of 4R5. ACN: 1497877(320f50) Synopsis Helicopter pilot reported a NMAC with a helicopter attempting to land on the same hospital helipad from which he was lifting off. ACN•. 1496444 (33 of50) Synopsis ERJ-175 flight crew reported receiving a TCAS RA descend command towards traffic during an ATC directed go around.
ACN: 1496202 (340f50) Synopsis A Bonanza pilot and a Piper PA28 flight instructor reported that misunderstanding of ATC instructions caused a NMAC. ACN: 1495942 (350f50) Synopsis A B737 Captain reported a "CLIMB" RA despite the traffic above. ACN: 1495076 (360f50) Synopsis UAS Operator reported a NMAC with an unidentified small aircraft in VMC at low altitude over coastal bluffs. ACN: 1494804 (370f50) Synopsis C152 student pilot and instructor reported the student executed a go-around when Tower Controller noticed loss of separation between the student's aircraft and another on short final. ACN: 1494794 (380f50) Synopsis C172 Instructor Pilot reported a NMAC in the pattern at YIP airport. ACN: 1494165 (390f50) Synopsis GA pilot reported a NMAC while on approach to DeWitt Spain airport. No traffic information was provided by ATC ACN: 1492741 (400f50) Synopsis MIA Departure Controller and flight crew reported a NMAC with a VFR aircraft operating in the departure corridor. ACN: 1492716 (41 of50) Synopsis GA flight instructor reported a NMAC on final approach to APA when another aircraft turned base prematurely.
ACN:1492713 (42 of50) Synopsis Tow plane pilot reported a near mid air collision with an aircraft while climbing with glider in-tow. ACN: 1492712 (430f50) Synopsis Hang glider pilot reported a near-mid-air-collision with a general aviation aircraft. ACN: 1492509 (440f50) Synopsis CL300 Captain on approach to SMO reported a NMAC with two UAVs. ACN: 1492367 (450f50) Synopsis Cessna 750 Captain reported an NMAC during approach with unreported powered parachute operating in close proximity of airport. ACN: 1492269 (460f50) Synopsis GA flight instructor reported a near-mid-air-collision after receiving a clearance to land. ACN: 1492257(470f50) Synopsis GA flight instructor reported a near-mid-air-collision in the pattern when another pilot did not follow tower instructions. ACN•. 1491827(480f50) Synopsis Air Carrier Crew reported a NMAC on approach to SFO runway 28L with an airliner on visual approach to runway 28R. ACN•. 1491741 (490f50) Synopsis A T RACON Controller reported his vectors for traffic were too late and insufficient to avoid a NMAC between their aircraft and an unidentified VFR track.
ACN:1491216 (500f50) Synopsis PA28 pilot reported that while on final a Cessna 172 turned base to final below him.
Report Narratives
Time / Day Date : 201801 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : TUS.Airport State Reference : AZ Altitude.MSL.SingIe Value : 1000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 20000 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : TUS Aircraft Operator : Corporate Make Model Name : Challenger CL601 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Climb Route In Use : Vectors Airspace.CIass C : TUS Aircraft : 2 ATC / Advisory. Tower : TUS Aircraft Operator : Military : 20 Make Model Name : Fighting Falcon F16 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.CIass C : TUS Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Corporate Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP)
Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Experience.FIight Crew. Total : 21800 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 45 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 4530 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1509624 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Corporate Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience.Flight Crew. Total : 14250 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 100 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 925 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1509625 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Person : 3 Reference : 3 Location Of Person.FaciIity : TUS. TOWER Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Local Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1510833 Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Training / Qualification Communication Breakdown. Partyl : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : NMAC Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.HorizontaI : 25 Miss Distance.VerticaI : 75 When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Air Traffic Control : Separated Traffic Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 A near miss occurred when an F16 flew right over the top of our aircraft and then turned left into a down wind. The F16 approached our aircraft from the rear as we were on our initial climb out of TUS, I estimate that our aircraft was about 3,500 to 3,800 feet MSL (climbing about 1,800 feet per minute and speed at 185 knots) when the F16 pass right over top of our aircraft with no TCAS alerts (TA) or no advisement of the traffic by the tower. We, the crew, knew that there were Military aircraft in the area as we listen to the tower give the military information about other traffic in area, shortly after we were given takeoff clearance with no mention of traffic for our departure. The only communication with and from the tower was us advising the tower of a near miss, after arriving at destination we called the tower at TUS to talk with tower chief still waiting a call back. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contains no additional information.] Narrative: 3 I was training another trainee during the daily F16 recovery. I was watching my trainee work when he did a nice job of realizing that his flight of four F16s were going to conflict with the challenger departures upwind no matter where he broke the F16s in the pattern. So he used a procedure at TUS that was specifically designed to deconflict with departures. He told the flight to offset left and issued traffic on the challenger. I watched the entire flight offset left and I watched the forth F16 well left and abeam the challenger and then he broke left. The challenger pilot then keyed up and said the F 16 was really close. I told him that he was separated, and I apologized for not giving him a heads up there would be traffic of his left that could startle him. He then complained to departure control, called the tower multiple times and after a thorough explanation from the manager, who was on the desk that afternoon, the pilot still wanted to file an NMAC. During [a review] the question was asked what separation was used between the two aircraft. The manager told them "tower applied visual." Well, though yes I did watch all four F16s offset to the north and the climbing challenger well off to their right, I did not even need tower applied visual. It was a VFR vs IFR Class C separation. The targets did not merge, therefore, I did not need 500 ft vertical, or visual separation. The F16s were on an approved and separated offset. Personally, would I have given traffic to the challenger if I was working by myself. Just so he didn't get scared when the F16 was off his left. That is my technique. I try not to force technique on my trainees. I wrote it down, and I planned on discussing the positive impact of a traffic call in that scenario. The other school of thought some trainers use is adding calls that aren't necessary and to frequency congestion being that they are "procedurally separated" or "already sequenced by approach." I have heard those things 1000 times. That all being said the aircraft were no factor to each other. The pilot of the challenger received an apology on the frequency, and multiple explanations. Synopsis A CI-60 flight crew reported a NMAC situation with a flight of 4 F16's. Pilot reported ATC's lack of advisories to them, and failure to provide separation. ATC reported following local SOP, and in compliance with FAA orders and directives.
Time / Day Date : 201801 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : EWR.Airport State Reference : NJ Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 5500 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : N90 Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : A320 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Approach Airspace.CIass E : N90 Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Small Aircraft Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass E : N90 Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 1575 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1509474 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Workload Events
Anomaly.FIight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Illness Anomaly Conflict : NMAC Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector.Automation : Aircraft RA When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 While on the arrival to EWR, we were having a medical issue with a passenger. I was the pilot monitoring. Handling the coordination of paramedics/dispatch/medical personnel (onboard the aircraft) we were advised by the doctor/nurse on board that our passenger's medical situation was declining. At that time we requesting special/expedited handling. ATC NY approach did a great job prioritizing us. While the workload was high, the Captain included our pilot jump seater in assisting me as the pilot monitoring. All was safely accomplished. The medical situation was coordinated and being handled by flight attendants/medical personnel in the cabin and Dispatch had notified for paramedics to meet us upon arrival. The Captain and I were both doing our normal duties. He was flying. I was pilot monitoring. Communicating with the flight attendants and Dispatch had concluded. While on the arrival receiving radar vectors we were at 5,500 descending. ATC notified us that we had VFR traffic that they were not in contact with 1000 below us. We saw him in the TCAS and watched him maneuver closer to us when we got a TCAS RA. I believe the Captain even saw the traffic visually. The autopilot was on at the time. I turned off the flight directors as per our procedure. The Captain clicked off the autopilot and followed the TCAS RA. It was a Climb RA, followed by a Monitor Vertical Speed, then a Clear of Conflict. We advised ATC of the TCAS RA to which they responded they watched us respond to it. We came within 400 ft of the traffic. The Captain once clear of conflict continued to hand fly the arrival and approach with autopilot and autothrottles off. We landed safely. Paramedics met the aircraft at the gate upon arrival and received medical attention. The Captain and I along with the help of jump seaters and Dispatch as well as flight attendant and medical personnel on board handled the situation safely and although we had multiple threats we were able to navigate safely to a safe landing. All personnel handled it very professionally. Synopsis A320 First Officer reported an NMAC on arrival into EWR with a light aircraft that was not in contact with ATC.
Time / Day Date : 201712 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : AVQ.Airport State Reference : AZ Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 2900 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : AVQ Aircraft Operator : Personal 10 Make Model Name : Light Sport Aircraft Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Initial Climb Route In Use : None Airspace.Class G : AVQ Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Make Model Name : Small Aircraft Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Airspace.CIass G : AVQ Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification Flight Crew : Private Experience.Flight Crew. Total : 155 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 30 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 85 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1508856 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly Conflict : NMAC Detector. Person : Flight Crew
Miss Distance.HorizontaI : 150 Miss Distance.VerticaI : 50 When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Upon takeoff from Runway 12 at AVQ, I called a north departure from the downwind. After completing the upwind and crosswind legs of the pattern, I turned onto the downwind and continued to climb. At 2900 feet MSL and while still flying parallel to the runway on the downwind, I saw motion on my right. Another aircraft was approaching perpendicular to the runway (approximate course 210) at pattern altitude on a collision course. The approaching aircraft pulled up and turned south. Seeing his turn, I pushed forward to reduce altitude. Upon completing the maneuver, I continued to my destination without incident. Synopsis A light sport pilot reported an NMAC in the pattern at AVQ airport.
Time / Day Date : 201712 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : MIA.Airport State Reference : FL Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 7000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : MIA Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8737-800 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Climb Route In Use.SID : SKIPS2 Airspace.Class B : MIA Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Make Model Name : Any Unknown or Unlisted Aircraft Manufacturer Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1508755 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : NMAC Detector.Automation : Aircraft RA When Detected : In-flight
Result.Flight Crew : FLC complied w / Automation / Advisory Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Flying the SKIPS departure off of 26L we were given a turn direct to CRABI and climb from 7000 to 16000 after the initial southbound turn and climb to 7000 feet. As I began the left turn to the east and climbed out of 7000, we got a TA followed quickly by an RA. The command was a significant descent. I was still hand flying, so I complied with the RA expeditiously. I used the turn to keep from negative GIing our jet as I transitioned from a climb to a rapid descent. The First Officer said it looked like a TBM or similar single engine mono plane, who was also in a rapid descent. As we passed the intruder aircraft, the First Officer said "That was close". He told ATC we were complying with an RA. He thought we missed by 200-300 feet laterally and passed at close to the same altitude. After the maneuver we resumed our climb and turn to CRABI, notifying ATC. We continued to our destination. The passengers and Flight Attendants were still strapped in, so it was just a close call. No damage or injuries. ATC steered us into the path of another aircraft. We were just NW of Tamiami airport. Probably a lot of VFR traffic on a day like this. I think in this case the question is better answered by ATC or the intruder aircraft? What I would like to know is why the other aircraft was also in a steep descent. Was he not complying with his TCAS or not given an RA? Seems unusual for TCAS to command descents to both aircraft. Synopsis B737 Captain reported an NMAC with a single engine aircraft shortly after departing MIA.
Time / Day Date : 201712 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : LAS.Airport State Reference : NV Relative Position.Angle.Radial : 020 Relative Position. Distance. Nautical Miles : 5 Altitude.MSL.SingIe Value : 3500 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.VisibiIity : 10 Light : Daylight Ceiling.Single Value : 25000 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : LAS Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : A320 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Final Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.CIass B : LAS Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Make Model Name : Person Reference : I Helicopter Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (AT P) Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 150 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 5200 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1506681 Human Factors : Human-Machine Interface Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events
Anomaly Conflict : NMAC Detector.Automation : Aircraft RA Detector.Automation : Aircraft TA Miss Distance.VerticaI : 400 When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.FIight Crew : FLC complied w / Automation / Advisory Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 We were cleared by Approach for a Visual Approach and instructed to maintain heading 270 and 3500 ft until intercepting final. We switched to Tower and were informed of a helicopter 1000 ft right below us. We did not have visual contact. Tower instructed us to expedite our turn to final ("start your turn now direct to the numbers"). When intercepting final, leaving 3500 ft as instructed, we had a RA without previous TA. The traffic that was 1000 ft below, was now 400 ft below. We leveled off responding to the RA, maintained 3500 ft until clear of conflict and continued the approach. Synopsis A320 Captain reported a TCAS RA while turning final on a visual approach to Runway 19R LAS.
Time / Day Date : 201712 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : GIF.Airport State Reference : FL Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 500 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility : Haze / Smoke Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : 8 Light : Daylight Ceiling : CLR Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : GIF Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Amateur/Home Built/Experimental Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Final Approach Route In Use : None Airspace.Class G : GIF Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.CTAF : GIF Aircraft Operator : FBO Make Model Name : Cessna 150 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Training Flight Phase : Final Approach Airspace.Class G : GIF Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Experience.Flight Crew. Total : 719
Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 22 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 247 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1506623 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly Conflict : NMAC Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Other / Unknown Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.HorizontaI : 100 When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Landed As Precaution Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Three aircraft were inbound to GIF (Winter Haven, FL). The winds favored Runway 23. I was 3rd in line behind a Cessna Cardinal, and a Cessna 172. We were communicating our distance out over the CTAF, so as to keep adequate spacing from each other, and advise any aircraft in the vicinity of our location, although I do not recall hearing any position reports from anyone in the pattern, when I called at 8 nautical miles and again inside 5 nautical miles. I had initially planned to enter the pattern either with an upwind entry to a crosswind, and downwind, but the lead airplane - the Cardinal - declared his intention over the CTAF to execute a straight in approach. The 172 and I, in turn, then declared similar intentions and continued to give our distance from each other and the airport. I believe my last report was just inside 3 nautical miles. The Cardinal indicated an intention to land long, did so, and was rolling out when the 172 declared there was insufficient space and announced a go around. This left me the next in line, and I observed the Cardinal exiting the runway. At about that time, there was an announcement that a Cessna 150 was on the downwind. I did not have visual contact with the 150, and did not know where on the downwind leg it was located, so I proceeded with the straight in. Normally I would expect an initial announcement of being on the downwind to take place before the aircraft crossed abeam the departure end of the runway, or even farther out, so not having visual contact was not particularly surprising, as it was slightly hazy at that time of day. At less than a mile from the threshold, I heard the 150 announce a turn from base to final. I immediately keyed the mike and requested he give his location. His response was; "About 100 feet off your left wing." I observed no aircraft at that location, and believed any sort of evasive maneuver that close to the ground without a target in sight to be unsafe and unwise. The individual in the 150 then launched into a tirade on the radio about proper pattern procedures. The pilot Of the 172 who was on the go around came on and suggested we all just fly the airplane and cool down. The response from the pilot of the 150 was to; "look at my middle finger." I remained silent on the frequency, focused on the landing, which was completed without incident, and announced; "clear off 23 at
Bravo," taxied and proceeded to secure the aircraft. As I was doing so, an individual walked up to me and announced; "You almost killed us! Didn't you see me?" I told him I had not seen him. He then continued his tirade about proper pattern procedures. I informed him again I had not seen him at any time. (I probably should have asked him if he had seen me, but did not due to the hostile attitude he was demonstrating. I always fly with my wingtip strobes, and landing light on - both Technical Service Ordered.) As he was departing I informed him that according to the A.I.M., straight in approaches to non-towered fields are acceptable practice. I have no idea if he was paying attention. Had he announced his location on the downwind, I might have been better able to spot the 150 and go into an upwind leg. I had well over an hour of reserve fuel, and was in no particular rush to land. During a subsequent conversation with the pilot of the 172, he indicated his ADS-B system showed the 150 was engaging in rapid patterns; sometimes called "short circuits", with turns out at midfield and a climb into the downwind. Almost as if he was trying to squeeze as many landings in as short a time as possible in the rental airplane, however that may simply be speculation on my part. Straight in approaches to non-towered fields are a part of instrument currency procedures, necessary to comply with the requirement for 6 approaches to minimums. Therefore, the proposal now being considered for a constant turn from downwind to base to final without going wings level prior to the turn to final, and the associated scan for straight in traffic, seems dangerous to me. I understand the desire to eliminate the base to final stall/spin problem which the proposed pattern modification is supposed to help. However implementing it may just result in more of the situations which happened here, even though I have no idea what kind of a pattern the 150 pilot was executing. Synopsis Experimental aircraft pilot reported a near-mid-air-collision with a CISO on final approach to a non-towered airport.
Time / Day Date : 201712 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : RYN.Airport State Reference : AZ Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 350 Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : RYN Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Small Aircraft Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Initial Climb Airspace.CIass D : RYN Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.Tower : RYN Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Amateur/Home Built/Experimental Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Phase : Initial Climb Airspace.CIass D : RYN Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Private Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 327 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 4 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 115 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : Human Factors : Confusion Events 1505348
Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : NMAC Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.HorizontaI : 50 Miss Distance.VerticaI : 10 When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 While doing touch and go's at Ryan airfield (RYN), I was cleared for a touch and go on Runway 6R; as I was approximately half way on final there was an experimental aircraft on 6R taking off (it may have also done a touch and go); as his speed appeared fairly slow, the tower then requested I sidestep to Runway 6L which I did; upon touching down and then proceeding upwind (at approximately 300-375 ft AGL) I came into close proximity to the experimental aircraft who had turned making a left crosswind departure from the pattern (6R is a normally right hand pattern and I do not recall if the experimental aircraft had clearance to turn left); I then diverted down and to the right to avoid what appeared would have been a collision; recovered and continued upwind. If the tower had given the experimental aircraft clearance for a left turn, and then instructed me to change to Runway 6L, they might have, at that moment forgot (I think that is unlikely) that I was doing touch and go's (although I had been in the pattern, doing touch and go's, for approximately a half hour prior to this occurrence); they might have thought that the experimental aircraft would being moving faster than it actually did, hence they might have believed it would have cleared Runway 6L prior to my climb out, which it did not; I believe what caused the situation was a lack of awareness by the tower as to the speed of the aircraft involved and where they were at that given point in time. I think great care must be exercised when a nonstandard movement is authorized (assuming it was) from the pattern, especially when parallel runways are involved with simultaneous takeoffs taking place. Synopsis GA pilot reported a NMAC with turning traffic climbing from the parallel runway at Ryan Airfield.
Time / Day Date : 201712 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : OMN.Airport State Reference : FL Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 900 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Night Ceiling.SingIe Value : 12000 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : DAB Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Decathlon 8KCAB Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Climb Route In Use : Direct Airspace.CIass C : DAB Airspace.Class E : DAB Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y 10 Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Operating Under FAR Part.Other Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass E : DAB Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 7000 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 50 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 200
ASRS Report Number Accession Number : Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Airspace Violation : All Types Anomaly Conflict : NMAC Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.Horizontal : 10 Miss Distance.VerticaI : 5 When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments 1505053 Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 While climbing out, I saw what appeared to be a small (less than 5 ft in size, may have been round) unlit unknown airborne object in flight path from the corner of my eye at the last second. Unfortunately, I am unable to describe the object better. While avoiding the object, my aircraft may have inadvertently climbed into Class C airspace prior to establishing 2 way radio communication. Synopsis Super Decathlon Pilot reported inadvertently climbing into Class C airspace while avoiding what was probably a UAV in the vicinity of OMN airport.
Time / Day Date : 201711 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : HQZ.Airport State Reference : TX Relative Position. Distance. Nautical Miles : 3 Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 400 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : 10 Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 12000 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Bonanza 33 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Final Approach Route In Use : Direct Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.Class D : HQZ Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Ultralight Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 103 Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass D : HQZ Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 1650
Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 18 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 800 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1505037 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Conflict : NMAC Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.HorizontaI : 150 Miss Distance.VerticaI : 30 When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 On 3 mile final approach to runway 36 at about 400 feet AGL. Had the RNAV GPS approach active on the KFC200 autopilot. I looked down to look at something in the cockpit and my passenger, sitting beside me, exclaimed, "what is that?!" I looked up and saw an ultralight aircraft directly in front of me about 30 feet below me and about 200 feet directly in front of me on my glide path. I immediately turned the autopilot off and abruptly turned about 15 degrees to the right to avoid a collision. The ultralight was a dark grayish color and my passenger said she could see the pilot as we went by. It was a very close call. I surmise that the ultralight pilot did not realize he/she was too close to the airport and in the final approach path. I reported it immediately to the Tower who warned the A36 that was on an approach behind me. Both the A36 pilot and the Tower subsequently said they then see it on radar and watched it on radar until it left Class D airspace and left the area. I heard the Tower say that it was now out of the area. A close call. Not sure what can be down to avoid except maybe to alert the ultralight pilots to stay out of the approaches to busy airports like Mesquite. Synopsis BE-33 pilot reported an NMAC with an ultralight aircraft on final approach to HQZ airport.
Time / Day Date : 201712 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : CCO.Airport State Reference : GA Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 250 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : CCO 10 Make Model Name : DA20 Undifferentiated Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Flight Plan : None Mission : Training Nav In Use. Localizer/GlidesIope/ILS Flight Phase : Final Approach Airspace.CIass E : CCO Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.CTAF : CCO : Runway 32 Make Model Name : PA-28 Cherokee/Archer/Dakota/Pillan/Warnor Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Mission : Training Flight Phase : Final Approach Airspace.CIass E : CCO Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 450 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 250 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 330 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1503538 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown
Communication Breakdown. Partyl Communication Breakdown. Party2 Events Anomaly.Conflict : NMAC Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.Horizontal : 200 Miss Distance.Vertical : 200 When Detected : In-flight : Flight Crew : Flight Crew Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airport Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 While we were on a 1.5 mile final on the ILS for 32 into CCO, after making plenty of radio calls stating our position, an aircraft (what looked like a Piper Arrow) turned base and was headed straight for us without making any radio calls. There were 3 other aircraft in the pattern and none of them were aware that there was a fourth plane in the pattern. I noticed the Arrow coming at us from our left side. I took control of the aircraft from the student and broke off the approach (in an evasive maneuver) to make a 360. Aircraft was within 200 feet of my aircraft. Had I not seen the aircraft, they would have turned final right into us. The plane then proceeded to turn final, land, taxi off of 32 and then back to 32 for departure without making any calls. Synopsis DA-20 pilot reported an NMAC at a non-towered airport with a non reporting aircraft.
Time / Day Date : 201712 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : TOL.TRACON State Reference : OH Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 2300 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Night Ceiling.SingIe Value : 3000 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : TOL Make Model Name : Helicopter Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Climb Route In Use : None Airspace.CIass C : TOL Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.TRACON : TOL Make Model Name : Small Aircraft Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass C : TOL Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot 10 Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 3900 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 90 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 2800
ASRS Report Number Accession Number : Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Distraction Events Anomaly.Conflict : NMAC Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.HorizontaI : 150 Miss Distance.VerticaI : 75 When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments 1503509 Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Environment - Non Weather Related Narrative: 1 My altitude were between 1200 and 1500 msl. On this particular flight, the passengers requested that I climb to a higher altitude to see further and get a view. This was after I had departed the downtown area and headed southwest of the city. I turned back to the city and started a climb after looking for traffic. NO traffic was observed. I was southwest of the city flying toward the city and climbing at roughly 1200ft/min. Upon reaching about 2200MSL feet out of the corner of my right eye, I saw an aircraft overtaking me about 75- 100 feet above me about 150 feet right of my flight path trending towards my flight path. I immediately turned to the left and entered a large rate of descent to avoid any further closure and or collision. I was making self-announced radio calls on the helicopter air-to- air frequency. I understood that in this particular instance, the traffic was an airplane and there was no frequency to self-announce over the downtown area that they could possibly be listening too. I have thought long and hard about what I could have done different and the only thing I think I could have done was to use Approach services for flight following as I had no idea another aircraft was in the area and was approaching me from behind. The other thing I could have done was a clearing turn to ensure the airspace was clear all around me before instituting a climb but I was already flying the direction of the oncoming airplane right before I turned toward the city and started a climb. I never saw the aircraft until it was that close. I am estimating the low wing [aircraft] never saw me as I never saw evasive action from them and I was below them and they were low wing and I was possibly in their blind spot. I was close enough to read tail numbers and see the color of the aircraft and this was at night. It appeared this was a perfect storm for a midair as we were both in each other's blind spot. I am reminded of the dangers of flying over larger cities as it draws more air traffic. I was sincerely humbled by this mishap and will work my hardest to try to not let it happen again although I do feel it was a very low chance occurrence. I hope others can learn from this near miss and I am excited for my aircraft to be installed with ADS-B [soon]. Synopsis Helicopter pilot reported a near mid air collision that required an evasive maneuver to avoid collision.
Time / Day Date : 201712 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : SEE. Tower State Reference : CA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 3400 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : SEE Aircraft Operator : Military Make Model Name : Super King Air 350 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Training Flight Phase : Initial Climb Route In Use : None Airspace.CIass D : SEE Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.Tower : SEE Aircraft Operator : Military Make Model Name : S-70/UH-60 Blackhawk/Seahawk/Pavehawk/Knighthawk Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Utility Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : VFR Route Airspace.Class D : SEE Aircraft : 3 Reference : Z ATC / Advisory.Tower : SEE Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Skyhawk 172/CutIass 172 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Initial Approach Airspace.Class D : SEE Person : 1
Reference : I Location Of Person.FaciIity : SEE. TOWER Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Supervisor / CIC Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control.Time Certified In Pos 1 (mon) . •4 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1503286 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Distraction Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Facility : SEE.TOWER Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Local Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1503289 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Conflict : NMAC Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector.Automation : Air Traffic Control Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Result.Air Traffic Control : Separated Traffic Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 Airspace Structure Human Factors Procedure The Tower Local control positions were de-combined. Traffic was easterly operations. I was monitoring Local North. A VFR B350 was awaiting departure. I received a point out of a flight of two H60s that were transitioning from West to East that would definitely effect any North field traffic. I also anticipated the Helicopters to be traffic for any departures on the Northside. The Local North Controller issued traffic to the 8350 that had departed referenced the H60s and a Cherokee. The B350 reported the Helicopter traffic in sight. Once I heard that the conflict appeared to be resolved, I resumed to assigning duties for the position rotation. The controller switched the 8350 and advised TRACON that they were looking for the traffic. I was not aware of a Cessna inbound. The C172 was on the South Local Controller frequency. At the time, the ATM (Air Traffic Manager) was in the cab talking to other controllers about other things, and during the occurrence he was standing directly behind the two controllers on position watching them work, obstructing my view. If he saw something peculiar, he could have brought it to the attention of any one of us at the time.
After the fact, the ATM discussed with me that the B350 did not have the Cessna in sight. I assume this was after he reviewed the audio. I explained to him that I was not aware of the C172 until after the audio and Falcon replay. Prior to this revelation, the North controller had called the Cessna a Cherokee but DID give the traffic call. I heard the collision alert, which alarmed well after the B350 was switched to the sector. I heard externally the South Controller give traffic alerts to a Cessna that appeared to be not answering. The controller was making transmissions to provide the traffic. The controllers (and I am not sure if they did, you cannot hear from my distance) could have coordinated the Cessna and B350 intentions. If I had known in time about the Cessna, I could have suggested to the Local South controller to give a suggested VFR heading i.e. (for more positive control) vice the "turn southbound" instruction. I would recommend a group review of the situation with all parties involved to discuss, learn and prevent any possible future re-occurrence. Having an ATM in the cab and talking to other controllers, and then literally standing behind the local controllers watching them, while they were working traffic during that event, may have been a contributing Human Factor to their performance. Especially when they are working [non]- standard operation. Narrative: 2 Local positions were split. Local North controller asked if I could take a Cessna 172 inbound for touch and go. I agreed and the Cessna was switched to me the Local South position. Upon contact, I saw a King Air 350 climbing off and instructed the Cessna to turn south for that traffic. I made a few traffic calls, the final one being a traffic alert. The King Air was already transferred to approach control. The Cessna never saw the King Air. They passed over each other and it appeared to both be at 3400 feet. The only thing would maybe to have kept King Air on frequency until traffic had passed by other controller. Synopsis ATC Tower Supervisor and Local Controller reported a near-mid-air-collision.
Time / Day Date : 201712 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 1000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Ceiling : CLR Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Luscombe Model 8/Luscombe 50 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use : None Airspace.Class G : ZZZ Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Aircraft Operator : FBO Make Model Name : Single Engine Turboprop Undifferentiated Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Skydiving Flight Phase : Final Approach Route In Use : None Airspace.Class G : ZZZ Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Experience.Flight Crew. Total : 4350 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 25 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 200 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1503278 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown
Communication Breakdown.PartyI Communication Breakdown. Party2 Events Anomaly.Conflict : NMAC Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.Horizontal : 100 Miss Distance.Vertical : O When Detected : In-flight : Flight Crew : Flight Crew Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I was in cruise at 1000 MSL. Approximately 2.5 NW of airport, intending to enter crosswind leg for Runway XX (in use, several aircraft in pattern). Skydiving single engine appeared in windscreen, ahead, 11 0'clock, very close (100-250 ft.), in steep descent for Runway YY to land. I was listening on CTAF, but never heard his call(s). The skydiving plane rarely uses runway in use, instead preferring nearest available. Very dangerous when multiple aircraft are using another runway. Frequently "cut off" others. Skydiving aircraft has a very steep descent angle and unpredictable path. My aircraft has hand-held radio only, reception is 0k but transmission is poor. [I'd recommend] extreme vigilance. Better radio transmit/receive. Recommend the skydiving aircraft use same runway as others when more than one aircraft is in the pattern and be more vigilant/aware of others. Always enter pattern on the 45 downwind. Synopsis Luscombe 8 pilot reported entering the crosswind at an uncontrolled airport while another aircraft entered the pattern unannounced for the crossing runway.
Time / Day Date : 201712 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 500 Environment Light : Night Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8737-700 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Final Approach Airspace.CIass C : ZZZ Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Challenger Jet Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Landing Airspace.CIass C : ZZZ Aircraft : 3 Reference : Z ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Government Make Model Name : Helicopter Operating Under FAR Part : Flight Phase.Other Airspace.CIass C : ZZZ Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft Part 91
Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1502952 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Conflict : Ground Conflict, Less Severe Anomaly.Conflict : NMAC Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control Miss Distance.Horizontal : O Miss Distance.Vertical : 200 When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : FLC complied w / Automation / Advisory Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.FIight Crew : Executed Go Around / Missed Approach Result.Air Traffic Control : Separated Traffic Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Ambiguous Narrative: 1 Approaching The Airport, I was following a (other carrier) Challenger. I was told he was doing 130 knots eight miles from the field. I immediately started to slow but the spacing wasn't good, so Tower told me S-turns to the north were approved; which I did. Spacing looked good so I continued. Tower told the Challenger to expedite off at D2 but didn't, and continued all the way down to the end of the runway. I was just about to round out when it was obvious the Challenger wasn't going to clear the runway, so Tower told me to go around. As I was climbing out, I heard Tower tell a Police helicopter to immediately descend. I looked out the windscreen and saw the helicopter right in front of me. It didn't look as though I was going to out climb him, so I immediately initiated a right hand turn to avoid. We never got an RA, but when we cleared the top of him, the TCAS read -200 feet. We continued around in a right traffic pattern and landed without incident. Synopsis 3737 Captain reported a late turn off of proceeding aircraft resulted in a go around, then evasive action was necessary on the climb to avoid a collision with a helicopter.
Time / Day Date : 201712 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 1500 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 12000 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Corporate 10 Make Model Name : Small Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turboprop Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Final Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.CIass D : ZZZ Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Make Model Name : Helicopter Flight Phase : Final Approach Airspace.CIass D : ZZZ Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Corporate Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 8700 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 42 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 2600 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1502266 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown
Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown. Party2 : ATC Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.FaciIity : ZZZ.Tower Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Approach Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1502266 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown. Partyl : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Conflict : NMAC Detector.Automation : Aircraft TA Detector. Person : Flight Crew Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control Miss Distance.Horizontal : 100 Miss Distance.VerticaI : O When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 I was cleared for a visual approach to Runway 34. When I checked in on Tower they advised of helicopter traffic which was to my right. I reported traffic was not in sight. Tower advised helicopter of my position again. Helicopter reported he had me in sight. My situational awareness placed the helicopter below me and passing beneath me from right to left and it sounded like he would be using the parallel Runway 35. I intentionally flew a significantly higher than normal visual approach to pass well above the Runway 35 final approach course. Upon joining the Runway 34 LOC I began a descent and got one TCAS "traffic" call and observed a target -300 below me. I pulled up again and the target disappeared about 10 seconds later and I began a descent to try to join the glideslope to stabilize my approach. After selecting full flaps I noticed out of my peripheral vision to the right a helicopter at my altitude less than 100 feet off my right wing. When I looked to the right the helicopter was veering away from me to the right and I initiated a slight turn to the left to make sure I missed him. I asked the Tower if he had seen the helicopter I had missed by less than 100 feet on the final approach course and got no response. I made a normal landing and exited and asked what the call sign of the helicopter was so it would get on the tape for review. After
landing I called the Tower Chief and reported the incident so he could begin an immediate investigation into what caused the problem. Narrative: 2 Aircraft Y on ILS approach for Runway 34, 7 MN south at 2,000. Aircraft X 10 MN southwest inbound. I noticed that there would be a possible conflict and Local was somewhat busy with other traffic. I asked if he saw the conflict and he acknowledged that he was going to sidestep Aircraft Y to Runway 35. I heard him give the instruction to continue and sidestep for Aircraft Y and gave traffic to Aircraft Y and Aircraft X. I assumed that the conflict was being handled appropriately and moved on to other tasks. The two aircraft got close, but I was under the impression that they had visual between them and were separating themselves. About ten minutes after Aircraft X landed he called the Tower and I transferred him to the facility manager. This is when I became aware that the pilot saw the situation as a NMAC. The Local Controller simply made a bad plan and did not communicate the plan to the pilots in a way that his plan would have worked. He should have made Aircraft Y break into a right 360 turn to follow the fast Aircraft X. Synopsis Approach controller and turboprop pilot reported a near miss with a helicopter during visual approach.
Time / Day Date : 201712 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 4000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : FBO Make Model Name : Skyhawk 172/Cutlass 172 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Training Flight Phase : Climb Route In Use : Vectors Airspace.Class E : ZZZ Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : FBO Function.Flight Crew : Instructor Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 400 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 120 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 300 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1502261 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Distraction Events Anomaly.Conflict : NMAC Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Overshoot Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Detector.Automation : Air Traffic Control
Miss Distance.VerticaI : 500 Were Passengers Involved In Event : N When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Instructor and student were climbing out on SID when instructed to climb to 4000 ft. ATC advised traffic 12-1 0'clock 1000 ft above. While watching for that traffic the student accidentally climbed through the assigned altitude and came dangerously close to the other aircraft, enough for ATC to get an alert and issue a pilot deviation and phone number to call when back on the ground. Synopsis C172 instructor pilot reported an altitude deviation and NMAC after the student pilot inadvertently climbed above the assigned altitude.
Time / Day Date : 201712 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : LAX.Airport State Reference : CA Relative Position.Angle.Radial : 072 Relative Position. Distance. Nautical Miles : 33 Altitude.MSL.SingIe Value : 9100 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : SCT Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B737 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Nav In Use.LocaIizer/GIidesIope/ILS : Runway 25L Flight Phase : Descent Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use.STAR : ANJLL Airspace.CIass B : LAX Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Aircraft Operator.Other Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Operating Under FAR Part.Other Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass B : LAX Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.Flight Crew : Captain Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 2404
ASRS Report Number Accession Number : Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Conflict : NMAC Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR 1501248 Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Object Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 Aircraft Human Factors During descent on the STAR and cleared for the ILS Approach, at approximately 9300 feet, the First Officer saw a white drone pass under our right wing at approximately 9100 feet. Synopsis A B737 Captain reported a near miss with a drone.
Time / Day Date : 201712 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : LAS.Airport State Reference : NV Relative Position.Angle.Radial : 100 Relative Position. Distance. Nautical Miles : 2 Altitude.MSL.SingIe Value : 6500 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : L30 Aircraft Operator : FBO Make Model Name : Skyhawk 172/Cutlass 172 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Training Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use : Vectors Airspace.CIass B : LAS Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Operating Under FAR Part.Other Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass B : LAS Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : FBO Function.Flight Crew : Instructor Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 864 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 181 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 498
ASRS Report Number Accession Number : Human Factors : Situational Awareness 1501117 Events Anomaly.Conflict : NMAC Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.HorizontaI : 150 Miss Distance.VerticaI : O When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 The problem was a near mid air collision with small drone at 6500 MSL that appeared to be moving southerly while my airplane was flying a magnetic heading of 200 approximately. Our lateral separation was between 150-200 feet. We were in the immediate vicinity Of LAS, almost directly above the approach end of Runway 26L. The drone was yellow in color and circular, at most 3 feet in diameter, and did not appear fixed wing. It appeared to have some kind of design/camera at its center. We were receiving radar vectors from Las Vegas TRACON. I was scanning visually while my student was under the view limiting device. We made no evasive action, there was merely a second between the time I saw the drone and it's passing of our position. I queried Las Vegas Approach if there was any drone activity in the area, they responded there was not, I then proceeded to describe the situation, to which they asked questions regarding the drone's altitude and flight path, and prior to our hand off they said they had made a report. This near mid air collision was no fault of Las Vegas Approach or my own, rather the drone operator who violated the airspace. Synopsis C172 flight instructor reported a NMAC with a UAV at 6500 in the vicinity of LAS airport.
Time / Day Date : 201712 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : AAO.Airport State Reference : KS Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 500 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility Weather Elements / Visibility.Other Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : AAO Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Skyhawk 172/Cutlass 172 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Training Flight Phase : Initial Climb Airspace.CIass E : AAO Aircraft : 2 Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Zenith Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Phase : Final Approach Route In Use.Other Airspace.CIass E : AAO Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 3000 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 100 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 900
ASRS Report Number Accession Number : Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Conflict : NMAC 1501114 Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector.Automation : Aircraft TA Miss Distance.Horizontal : O Miss Distance.VerticaI : 200 When Detected : In-flight Result.General : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 [I] checked both communication radios with the airport base station using the Unicom/CTAF frequency. The AAO ASOS reported winds to be 4 to 6 kts from 10 degrees magnetic, indicating that runway 36 should be used. The wind socks also indicated that runway 36 should be used. The student pilot taxied to the runway 36 run up pad and completed a pre-takeoff check. Prior to takeoff, the pilots on board visually looked for traffic and listened on the CT AF frequency. No other traffic was observed or heard. On CT AF the student pilot announced that he was taking off on runway 36, taxied onto the runway and took off. Nearing the north end of the 6000 ft runway, climbing through 400 or 500 ft AGL, [we] both observed a yellow-colored target at [our] altitude on the onboard ADS-B Flight Information System (FIS). Seconds later the conflicting aircraft, believed to be a CH2T aircraft, was observed passing below [us] and then arcing to a SSE track. No communications were ever heard from the conflicting aircraft. Note: the FIS indicates conflicts, but does not recommend a course of action. [I] believe that the CH2T was practicing Runway 18 ILS approaches to AAO. Aircraft practicing instrument approaches into AAO normally make several announcements on the CTAF frequency - particularly when the approach is opposite the active runway direction. Synopsis C172 flight instructor reported an NMAC after departing AAO.
Time / Day Date : 201712 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : 39N.Airport State Reference : NJ Relative Position.Angle.Radial : 150 Relative Position. Distance. Nautical Miles : 3 Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 2800 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.VisibiIity : 10 Light : Daylight Ceiling.Single Value : 25000 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZNY Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Skyhawk 172/CutIass 172 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Direct Airspace.Class E : ZNY Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : M-20 S Eagle Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Climb Airspace.CIass E : ZNY Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Private Experience.Flight Crew. Total : 1350 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 12 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 700
ASRS Report Number Accession Number : Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Conflict : NMAC Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control Miss Distance.Horizontal : 500 Miss Distance.Vertical : O When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments 1501091 Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I was cruising eastbound, just south Of 39N, at 2,800 ft. I watched on ADS as [a Mooney] departed Runway 28 at 39N and entered a climbing left turn. The aircraft was behind me, and much faster than my C172. The plane leveled at 2,800 ft, headed directly toward me and a mile behind me. At that moment, NY Center said "traffic six o'clock, same direction and altitude, fast-moving." I performed a chandelle to get out of the way of the other aircraft, which never changed course, altitude or speed. I have ADS-B OUT and IN, and it has been verified. Since the other aircraft obviously had ADS-B OUT, I assume it had the IN function as well. There was no way I would have avoided a collision, even with ATC warning, if I did not see for myself how immediate the threat was. I can easily believe that a plane overtaking a 172 from behind would have very little cross-section to see visually, but how did they not glance at their own ADS-B? I'm really puzzled. If we buy these things and don't use them, what's the purpose of having them? Synopsis C172 reported taking evasive action to avoid a midair collision departing 39N airport.
Time / Day Date : 201712 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : GIF.Airport State Reference : FL Relative Position.Angle.Radial : 320 Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 1000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : 10 Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : GIF Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Amateur/Home Built/Experimental Crew Size.Number Of Crew . 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Initial Approach Airspace.CIass G : GIF Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Lake Aircraft Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Personal Airspace.CIass G : GIF Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Private Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Experience.Flight Crew. Total : 1576 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 17 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 1000 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1501085
Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly.Conflict : NMAC Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.HorizontaI : 200 Miss Distance.VerticaI : O When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airport Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I had called 10, 5, and 3 miles out to the west from GIF and announced I would enter a 45-to-left-downwind for Rwy 5. I announced 45-to-left-downwind, then announced I was turning to left downwind. While making my right turn to downwind I passed approx. 200 ft directly in front of a left-turning Lake. I steepened my turn and evaded, then called the Lake on unicom 123.05. He did not respond, and I assume he was not on the frequency. I did not see where he went after I established on downwind, and he never made any radio calls. Synopsis General aviation pilot reported an NMAC while flying in the pattern at GIF.
Time / Day Date : 201712 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : MKE.Airport State Reference : WI Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : MKE Make Model Name : Citation Latitude (C680A) Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : IFR Nav In Use.LocaIizer/GIidesIope/ILS : Runway 25L Flight Phase : Initial Approach Airspace.Class C : MKE Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Operating Under FAR Part.Other Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass C : MKE Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.FIight Crew : Captain Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1500686 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Conflict : NMAC Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.General : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors
Narrative: 1 I spotted a drone which appeared to be a quadcopter go right underneath us on the localizer. It appeared to go underneath us a hundred feet or so going the opposite direction. I was right off the coast over Lake Michigan off the 25L localizer MKE. Always keep an eye out at low altitude. Synopsis CE-680A Captain reported a NMAC with a UAV on approach to MKE Runway 25L.
1-— '-fil'l-• Time / Day Date : 201711 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : 119.Airport State Reference : OH Relative Position.Angle.Radial : 275 Relative Position. Distance. Nautical Miles : 7 Altitude.MSL.SingIe Value : 2500 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.VisibiIity : 10 Light : Daylight Ceiling.Single Value : 10000 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : 119 Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : PA-28 Cherokee/Archer/Dakota/PiIIan/Warrior Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Descent Route In Use : Direct Airspace.CIass E : CMH Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part.Other Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass E : CMH Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 900
Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 5 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 100 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number . • 1500518 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Conflict : NMAC Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.Horizontal : 100 Miss Distance.Vertical : 15 When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 During descent for landing at 119, at approximately 2500 ft MSL over populated area, I observed a small black dot at my same altitude, and I o'clock from my position. I banked slight left to avoid the object. As I passed the object, I observed what appeared to be a stationary drone of the hobby store variety. I felt this to be a very dangerous activity on the part of the drone operator that could easily have ended in loss of life or severe damage to the aircraft if I had not seen it in time to maneuver away. Synopsis PA28 pilot reported a NMAC with a UAV on approach to 119.
Time / Day Date : 201711 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : TRL.Airport State Reference : TX Relative Position.Angle.Radial : 245 Relative Position. Distance. Nautical Miles : 6 Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 7500 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.VisibiIity : 10 Light : Daylight Ceiling.Single Value : 12000 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Bonanza 35 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Direct Airspace.Class E : DIO Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Operating Under FAR Part.Other Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass E : DIO Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Private Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 400 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 25 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 200 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1500289 Human Factors : Situational Awareness
Events Anomaly Conflict : NMAC Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.Horizontal : O Miss Distance.VerticaI : 500 When Detected : In-flight Result.General : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Departed GPM at 2500 with a southerly heading until clear of Cedar Hill (all the big towers). Once clear, I started to turn left to overfly JWY and climb to 3000. After Class B, I started my climb to 7500 toward the Little Rock area. I was using Terrell (TRL) as a fix and a check for weather (altimeter) when I noticed something that looked like a bird. Since I fly a lot in the SGT area, I see a lot of birds of different types - and I thought I was seeing a bird at first. I thought - good, I'm higher and the bird should not be a factor. Then I tried to re-focus my eyes as the movement wasn't quite like a bird - close, but not the same. Worse, my brain was not making sense of what kind of bird this might be as I was trying to "see" a black vulture. What my eyes kept telling me is this black vulture had four evenly space red dots (as a square) on its back! Then I got mad - that's a drone. And since I don't know a lot about them, I have no way to process how close the drone was. My best guess is within 500 ft. My position: about 6 miles southwest of TRL at 7500 flying a magnetic heading of 065. Synopsis BE35 pilot reported a NMAC with a UAV at 7500 ft in the vicinity of TRL airport.
Time / Day Date : 201711 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : LHM.Airport State Reference : CA Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 1150 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : 10 Ceiling.Single Value : 12000 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : LHM Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : PA-28R Cherokee Arrow All Series Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Takeoff Airspace.CIass E : LHM Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.CTAF : LHM Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Skyhawk 172/CutIass 172 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Climb Airspace.CIass E : LHM Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification Flight Crew : Private Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 181 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 10 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 9
ASRS Report Number Accession Number : Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Conflict : NMAC Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.Horizontal : 300 Miss Distance.Vertical : 50 When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.Flight Crew : Became Reoriented Assessments 1499737 Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I was flying to Lincoln, California (I-HM) to practice touch and goes in a PA28R 180. I entered the traffic pattern for Runway 15 on a 45-degree entrance, calls previously had been done at approximately 5 miles and 2 miles out. I entered the downwind, completed my GUMPS check and proceeded to base. A single engine Cessna took off from Runway 15 while I was on final. I completed the touch and go and climbed out to enter the crosswind, call made, at approximately 500 feet above ground level. The Cessna in the pattern flew an exaggerated upwind pattern, apparently he had made a crosswind call, and a downwind call and I crossed in front of his line of flight. I was notified by the pilot of the Cessna of the error, and apologized for the intrusion. I noticed his aircraft to my left hand side, approximately 300 feet to the inside of the pattern 50 feet lower. I exited the parallel downwind and flew a right hand one-eighty turn out and reentered the downwind leg. The contributing factors to the intrusion was my low time in a PA28R with fixation on the departure processes, likely not hearing and registering mentally the crosswind and downwind calls by the Cessna. An additional error was not announcing my intention to fly a touch and go for Runway 15. Synopsis PA28R pilot reported a NMAC in the pattern at LHM airport.
Time / Day Date : 201711 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : BOS.Airport State Reference : MA Relative Position.Angle.Radial : 162 Relative Position. Distance. Nautical Miles Altitude.MSL.SingIe Value : 2700 Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : A90 Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Small Transport, Low Wing, 2 Recip Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Climb Airspace.Class B : BOS Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Operating Under FAR Part.Other Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass B : BOS Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1499604 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly Airspace Violation : All Types Anomaly Conflict : NMAC Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR
Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.Horizontal : 200 Miss Distance.VerticaI : 200 When Detected : In-flight : Weather / Turbulence Result.GeneraI : Police / Security Involved Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 During climb out, I was about 2700 feet, 6-8 miles South-Southwest of Boston, I believe over the Quincy/Braintree area, I came within a couple hundred feet of drone. It was about 2 feet by 2 feet in size, black, four blade, and was rocking back and forth in the turbulence. I reported it to Boston Departure. The next controller followed up with more questions about it. After arriving at my destination, I was told to contact the Massachusetts State Police. I called and just verified what I told ATC. Synopsis A Small Transport Captain reported a NMAC with a UAV operating in Boston Class B airspace without ATC knowledge. Pilot reported incident to A90 Departure, and Massachusetts State police.
Time / Day Date : 201711 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : DFW Airport State Reference : TX Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 3000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC/ Advisory.TRACON : DIO Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Large Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.Class B : DFW Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.TRACON : DIO Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Small Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turboprop Eng Flight Plan : IFR Flight Phase : Initial Climb Route In Use : Vectors Airspace.CIass B : DFW Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.FaciIity : DIO.TRACON Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Approach Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Developmental ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1499027 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Situational Awareness Communication Breakdown.Party1 : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC
Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1499646 Person : 3 Reference : 3 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1499648 Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : NMAC Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector.Automation : Aircraft TA Detector.Automation : Aircraft RA Detector. Person : Flight Crew Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.Flight Crew : FLC complied w / Automation / Advisory Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Working Arrival Radar. A Tower requests a release from GKY airport, 270 heading and climbing to 3,000. I approve it. The aircraft finally departs five minutes and some number of seconds later, at which point I forgot about the release. I was under the impression that type of coordination is only good for 3 minutes. The aircraft departing climbs westbound into the flight path of the arriving [large transport]. They got about 700 feet vertically and then the [large transport] responded to a TCAS RA. Well, the stale coordination was obviously a factor. But I also will probably not approve any releases climbing to 3,000 in the future. I will only approve climbing to 2,000 at least when I am that busy. Also it wasn't that I was that busy, but the fact that it was three runways worth of arrivals to DFW so I was pushing all my base traffic down ASAP to help the other sector get their traffic down and in.
Narrative: 2 We were on a 020 heading to intercept the final approach course descending through around 3,600 feet, about 9 DME on the ILS, cleared for a visual approach. The First Officer was flying, with the autopilot on. Approach issued a traffic advisory about traffic ahead, indicating an altitude 3,500 feet, about the same time the TCAS issued a traffic alert. The TCAS showed traffic ahead, and about level. Soon after the TCAS issued a climb RA. The First Officer disconnected the autopilot and followed the RA. I told Approach we were climbing in response to the RA. I saw the traffic as it passed underneath, heading westbound, about 200 feet below. When clear of the RA we resumed the Visual Approach for an uneventful landing. After arrival at the gate I called dispatch and notified them of the TCAS RA and estimated the separation at 200 feet. If we had not had the RA we would have been very close to the aircraft, possibly hitting it. We passed directly over the aircraft, and had we continued descending we would have been at about the same altitude. We were in the Class B airspace, there should not have been any traffic at that altitude which Approach did not know about. All of the altitudes are approximate as I was looking outside most of the time, except when I briefly looked inside when the RA occurred to verify the First Officer was following the RA. Narrative: 3 [Report narrative contains no additional information.] Synopsis An Approach Controller and air carrier flight crew reported a near mid air collision due to poor ATC coordination on a departure from a satellite airport.
Time / Day Date : 201711 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : MKY.Airport State Reference : FL Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 2000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 3000 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X Aircraft Operator : FBO 10 Make Model Name : Skyhawk 172/CutIass 172 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Training Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : None Airspace.CIass E : RSW Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Make Model Name : Cessna 152 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass E : RSW Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : FBO Function.Flight Crew : Instructor Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Experience.Flight Crew. Total : 320 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 15 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 100
ASRS Report Number Accession Number : Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Conflict : NMAC Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.Horizontal : 3 Miss Distance.Vertical : O When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments 1498594 Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Flying at 2000 ft south west of MKY. Training flight straight and level flight. Aircraft, Cessna, spotted at same level. Head on to the right of my aircraft. Evasive maneuver initiated descending turn to the right on my part. Evasive maneuver initiated on the other aircraft, ascending. Lost sight of the aircraft during the maneuver. No accidents reported. Synopsis GA flight instructor reported a near mid-air collision during a training flight near MKY.
Time / Day Date : 201711 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : CLT.Airport State Reference : NC Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 3000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Dusk Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : CLT Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Regional Jet 900 (CRJ900) Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.Class B : CLT Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Operating Under FAR Part.Other Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass B : CLT Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1498437 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly Conflict : NMAC Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR
Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.General : Police / Security Involved Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Coming through approximately 3,000 ft on the visual approach to runway 23 in CLT noticed a drone pass by my window and off the wingtip of the aircraft by about 5 to 10 feet. It was dusk and I could not tell what type or the configuration of the drone but it did have a navigation light on it and some type of strobe/anti-collision light. I notified ATC immediately and after reaching the gate I contacted CLT Approach via phone as instructed. I was told that three aircraft behind us also reported seeing the drone and that they had shut down runway 23 approaches and gone to a parallel south operation. They also advised that the [the local] police helicopter had been dispatched and was able to find an approximate location. Drones should have flight restrictions programmed into their software. Synopsis CRJ-900 Captain reported a NMAC with a UAV on approach to CLT.
Time / Day Date : 201711 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : 1<90.TRACON State Reference : MA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 1500 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : K90 Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Small Transport, Low Wing, 2 Recip Eng Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : VFR Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : VFR Route Airspace.CIass E : K90 Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.TRACON : K90 Make Model Name : Small Transport, Low Wing, 2 Recip Eng Flight Plan : VFR Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : None Airspace.CIass E : K90 Person Reference : I Location Of Person.FaciIity : K90.TRACON Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Approach Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1498021 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Conflict : NMAC Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Other / Unknown Detector. Person : Flight Crew Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control
When Detected : In-flight Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 Aircraft X requested VFR flight following for a short flight from at 1,000 feet. The pilot had opposite direction VFR traffic indicating 800 feet. I issued the traffic at 8 miles. Aircraft X did not have the traffic in sight. The VFR aircraft indicated level at 800 feet so at 5 miles I reissued the traffic and suggested a VFR climb if not in sight. Aircraft X did not have the traffic in sight and executed a climb to 1,500 feet. At 3 miles, I reissued the traffic and advised the pilot that the targets appeared likely to merge. The pilot did not request a vector for the traffic. Aircraft X then reported the traffic in sight at his same altitude of 1,500 feet, and not at the indicated 800 feet. During the time both before and after the conflict, the VFR traffic showed single sweep altitude changes to altitudes of 1,200, 1,600, and 1,700 feet, very infrequently. I should have issued proactive vectors to de-conflict the traffic situation since both altitudes were not verified. Synopsis K90 TRACON Controller reported an unidentified VFR aircraft was a NMAC with a VFR aircraft the Controller was working.
Time / Day Date : 201711 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : 4R5.Airport State Reference : WI Relative Position.Angle.Radial : 230 Relative Position. Distance. Nautical Miles : 2 Altitude.MSL.SingIe Value : 2500 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility. Visibility : 10 Light : Daylight Ceiling.Single Value : 8000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : 4R5 Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : SR20 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Initial Approach Airspace.CIass E : 4R5 Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Private Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 154 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 61 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1497968 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly Conflict : NMAC Anomaly Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.HorizontaI : 200 Miss Distance.VerticaI : 50
When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 The 4R5 CTAF frequency was being monitored about 25nm southwest from 4R5 from our departure point DLH. At 15, 10, and 5nm, radio calls were made to state our intention to land. No other traffic reported on the CT AF frequency. During descent, at around 2500 ft with a heading of 310deg and a speed of 130kts, an Orange/ White Beechcraft Baron crossed our trajectory (left to right) 200 feet in front of us and 50 feet below. A slight turn to the left was initiated to increase separation the two airplanes. A few attempts to initiate contact with the other aircraft on the CT AF frequency were made, but unsuccessful. Some faint radio communication from Moose Lake sharing the same CTAF frequency (in response to my transmissions?) were heard at that same moment. The other airplane seemed to just have taken off from Runway 22 at 4R5. The integration in the pattern and landing on Runway 22 4R5 was non-eventful. Once our airplane was parked and shut down, what seemed like the same Beechcraft Baron was seen overflying the field parallel to Runway 22 at around 2000 ft, one last try to initiate contact with that airplane was again unsuccessful. Synopsis SR20 pilot reported an NMAC with a Beechcraft Baron in the vicinity of 4R5.
Time / Day Date : 201711 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 5 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Night Ceiling.SingIe Value : 6000 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi 10 Make Model Name : Bell Helicopter Textron Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Takeoff Airspace.CIass G : ZZZ Aircraft : 2 Make Model Name : Helicopter Flight Phase : Landing Airspace.CIass G : ZZZ Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Rotorcraft Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 3800 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 60 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 1500 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1497877 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events
Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : NMAC Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.HorizontaI : 40 Miss Distance.VerticaI : 30 When Detected : In-flight : Published Material / Policy Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airport Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 At [hospital helicopter pad] following the completion of a [medical] transport, the crew and I completed our walk around and started the aircraft...with all required lights on. I completed the takeoff checklist and after making the required calls (stating our location, direction of departure, and destination), I increased collective and established the aircraft in a stable hover in order to perform hover checks. As I was preparing to slide left with the left side crewmember (our paramedic) clearing my slide, he advised me to hold my position immediately because another [helicopter] was about to land on top of us. Eventually the other aircraft saw us and he/she slid to their left and established their helicopter in a steady hover at approximately 30 feet up, 40 feet to our 9 0'clock. They remained in that hover for approximately 30-40 seconds and then waved off to the south. I attempted to contact that aircraft on the common frequency but they did not answer. When they were clear and out of their turn and heading back to the north, I departed to the south and made a turn out to the west, enroute...for fuel. I contacted flight communication and cleared to the west without them saying anything to us or advising us of another aircraft in the area. If it weren't for the paramedic seeing the searchlight of the other helicopter and his timely call, I am fairly we certain that we would have been hit by the other aircraft. The other aircraft should have been up on the helicopter common frequency. Also, the pad is not big enough for two aircraft to be turning in such close proximity without having direct communications with each other. Synopsis Helicopter pilot reported a NMAC with a helicopter attempting to land on the same hospital helipad from which he was lifting off.
Time / Day Date : 201711 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : TUS.Airport State Reference : AZ Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 7000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Night Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : TUS Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : EMB ERJ 170/175 ER/LR Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.CIass C : TUS Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Aircraft Operator : Military Make Model Name : Helicopter Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Airspace.CIass C : TUS Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1496444 Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Human-Machine Interface Human Factors : Situational Awareness Person : 2
Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.Flight Crew : Captain Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1496449 Human Factors : Human-Machine Interface Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly Conflict : NMAC Detector.Automation : Aircraft TA Detector.Automation : Aircraft RA Detector. Person : Flight Crew Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result. General : Flight Cancelled / Delayed Result.FIight Crew : Executed Go Around / Missed Approach Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Upon arriving in TUS we were initially cleared the RNAV. We were then cleared for the visual approach to Runway 21. As we approached the airport we were notified of traffic at our Ten to Eleven O'clock. We had a visual on one of the aircraft and the tower gave us a no indication the traffic would be an issue as we were established on final. As we approached the tower gave us the go around command. The captain executed an immediate go around without delay. We were unaware that the go around was in reference to that traffic as it was not stated in the initial command. As we climbed on the go around to 7000 ft. The captain saw the aircraft that he a continuous visual on approaching under us and climbing into our path from his vantage point and at the same time we received an RA that commanded us to descend. We ignored this command because it would have descended us right into the path of the oncoming helicopter and maintained a visual separation. Runway construction at current airport and use of runway's conflicting procedures and practices at neighboring military base. Military controllers and pilots should be more aware of the procedures and how they can interfere with airports close proximity. Narrative: 2
[Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis ERJ-175 flight crew reported receiving a TCAS RA descend command towards traffic during an ATC directed go around.
Time / Day Date : 201711 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 1700 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Weather Elements / Visibility.Other Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 2700 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Bonanza 36 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Final Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.Class D : ZZZ Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : FBO 10 Make Model Name : PA-28 Cherokee/Archer/Dakota/PiIIan/Warrior Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Training Flight Phase : Final Approach Airspace.CIass D : ZZZ Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument
Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Engineer Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Experience.Air Traffic Control.Radar : 4 Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 34200 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 35 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 350 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1496202 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : Y Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : FBO Function.FIight Crew : Instructor Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 870 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 140 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 830 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1496203 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Distraction Communication Breakdown.Party1 : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly.Conflict : NMAC Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.Horizontal : O Miss Distance.VerticaI : 100 When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.FIight Crew : Executed Go Around / Missed Approach Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Approach Control had cleared me for a visual approach to follow a Cherokee on a practice ILS approach short final, and to contact Tower. I was cleared to land on [Runway] XXR and heard Local Control tell a Cherokee on right downwind for [Runway] XXR, to follow a Bonanza (me) on Final. The next thing I heard was Local Control ask the Cherokee if he
was on base leg. Before there was a reply, my passenger yelled that an airplane almost hit us under our wing. I saw the Cherokee, number 3 for landing, disappear under our airplane. At the same moment this all happened, Local told me to maintain altitude. He told the Cherokee to continue north, if there was an instructor on board and to call the Tower, that he had a pilot deviation. It was one of the local training school airplanes doing pattern work. He, Local, then cleared me to land, again. I fly into this airport every month, and I am also a former controller and a recently retired airline Captain. I am very keen to listen to all traffic, and keep an awareness of the traffic. This day, I was busy looking for my short final Cherokee traffic to make sure I was not catching up to him. I have an iPad with WingX Pro, that displays traffic, but neither of these Cherokees have ADS-B, so they do not show up. My passenger was also trying to find the Cherokee short final with me, while also checking the iPad. The one drawback, Local was also working ground control and never issued a timely alert to me about the errant Cherokee and conflict alert that I am sure was going off in the cab. I was a flight instructor many years ago, so I know how it can be distracting to try and teach while also maintaining safety. This flight school needs to have a review of their procedures and standards. Narrative: 2 CFI was giving instructions to student pilot and coming into [airport] for full-stop landing. Instructor's plane was on right downwind for right traffic pattern of Runway XXR. When Tower instructed/said, "[Call sign], you will follow Bonanza off your right side, 2 miles." Student pilot and instructor spotted aircraft 2 miles on final approach path and started the base turn to follow as per ATC's instruction. However, instructor missed Tower's radio call to the Bonanza afterward. (According to the record) Tower said, "Bonanza, you will be following traffic 3 miles ahead, number 2, Runway XXR cleared to land. ' It turns out that instructor was supposed to follow the traffic on final leg 5 miles off the airport, not the one on 2 miles straight in for Runway [XXR]. And, instructor's plane was number 3 for landing. Because instructor couldn't constantly monitor other conversations, instructor was staying on right base leg while Bonanza was approaching for final leg. Instructor and student couldn't spot Bonanza aircraft, and Bonanza aircraft also couldn't spot our airplane until instructor's airplane crossed/passed their final path 700 feet below (based off ATC's radar altitude encoder). After near miss, instructor followed Tower's instruction to continue inbound for landing on final leg. Pilot understood the mistake/deviation made from ATC's instruction that caused the near miss. Instructor should have paid more attention on radio for better situational awareness to avoid any kind of incident/accident [from] happening. Instructor went over the voice records after landing to review/check own performance and mistake to prevent the same situation in future. Synopsis A Bonanza pilot and a Piper PA28 flight instructor reported that misunderstanding of ATC instructions caused a NMAC.
Time / Day Date : 201711 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 20000 Environment Light : Night Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B737 Next Generation Undifferentiated Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Climb Airspace.CIass A : ZZZ Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory Center : ZZZ Make Model Name : Any Unknown or Unlisted Aircraft Manufacturer Airspace.CIass A : ZZZ Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 175 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 9110 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1495942 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events
Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : NMAC Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector.Automation : Aircraft RA Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : FLC complied w / Automation / Advisory Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Ambiguous Narrative: 1 Airspace Structure Environment - Non Weather Related The First Officer (FO) took off from ZZZ on runway heading Runway 6. After a direct clearance and another vector off the SID for traffic, we were cleared direct to ZZZ VOR with a climb to FL230. Direct ZZZ VOR was executed with abeam points, and we initiated the climb. Just prior to the ZZZZZ Intersection, abeam point and approximately FL200, we received an aural "TRAFFIC" advisory. The FO slowed his rate of climb to 800 FPM using Vertical Speed (VS) to avoid setting off an RA since the other aircraft was above us. I noticed the aircraft was only 400 feet above us on the HSI and barely acquired the traffic visually when the TCAS commanded a "CLIMB" RA. The FO immediately disconnected the autopilot, pushed the thrust levers up and initiated a climb maneuver following the RA command on the flight director. After a brief moment of climbing at an increased VS, the TCAS issued a "CLEAR OF CONFLICT" advisory. Start to finish, the whole incident happened very quickly. I re-acquired the traffic passing to our left from beneath our nose at our 11 0'clock position and low. The Controller started to give us a Traffic Advisory but didn't really finish because the aircraft had already passed. I told the Controller that it had set off an RA in our aircraft. In the end, we had climbed through the other aircraft's altitude as a result of following the TCAS RA, and I believe we passed within three NM of the other aircraft. Being at night, it was more difficult to tell. There were several quick frequency changes that might have contributed on the Controllers' part. We notified Dispatch through ACARS. We continued the flight without further incident. Understand what conditions led to the RA and correct it/them. It was either a Controller error/misjudgment or a Pilot error in either/both aircraft. Additionally, it was a clearance not being given or received properly. I believe that we complied fully with ATC clearances and our TCAS/RA maneuver. Synopsis A B737 Captain reported a "CLIMB" RA despite the traffic above.
Time / Day Date : 201710 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Altitude.MSL.SingIe Value : 244 Environment Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 10000 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Operating Under FAR Part.Other Flight Plan : None Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : None Airspace.CIass G : ZZZ Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Small Aircraft, Low Wing, I Eng, Fixed Gear Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass G : ZZZ Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Reporter Organization : Personal Function. Other. Other Qualification. Other Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 22 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 10 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 22 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1495076 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly Conflict : NMAC Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy
Detector. Person : Other Person Miss Distance.HorizontaI : 200 Miss Distance.Vertical : 100 When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 While flying my UAS along the shore. I experienced a near miss with a low flying aircraft. I was taking pictures of the surf and cliffs for my photography portfolio. I was flying a UAS. I launched from the parking area overlooking the beach, altitude about 7 Ift MSL. Visibility was reported as greater than 10 NM, winds less than 4 MPH. Although visibility along the beach was unlimited to the South, [it was] about .9 Miles to the North. I had completed filming and had instituted the automated Return-To-Home procedure. In this mode the aircraft climbs to its designated RTH altitude and autonomously flies back and lands at its launch or "Home" point. Although on autopilot the aircraft still responds to the controls. At this point, I observed and heard an aircraft flying low (a little above the top of the bluff which at that point is 7 Ift MSL) along the beach that had come from the North around the point. My first reaction was to dive the drone and I started to descend but I realized that it was already above the level of the approaching aircraft so I reversed throttle and continued the climb to evade. The aircraft passed below the drone which was at about 244ft MSL altitude and between the drone and I. The aircraft was a low-wing, single- engine, monoplane, dark in color. The pilot gave no indication that he saw the UAS and continued flying South along the beach. Although the sectional charts list the Minimum Safe Altitude in the area at over 1,000 ft, aircraft sometimes fly along the beach because it is very scenic with the ocean view stretching out to the horizon. This also creates the illusion that other aircraft can be seen well in time to be avoided. But the coast is not a straight line and aircraft skimming the bluffs over the beach are masked by bluffs at points along the coast. In this case the bluff [at the] point only .9 mile away masked the aircraft from my view and vice versa and it was in my flight space with almost no time to react. Pilots should expect to encounter [UAS]. FAA should remind pilots that even if visibility is unlimited, small drones can only be seen at best a mile away and they should avoid tracing the beach contour even if visual flight rules allow it. Synopsis UAS Operator reported a NMAC with an unidentified small aircraft in VMC at low altitude over coastal bluffs.
Time / Day Date : 201711 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 1350 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Dusk Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : FBO Make Model Name : Cessna 152 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Training Flight Phase : Final Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.CIass D : ZZZ Aircraft : 2 ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : FBO Make Model Name : Cessna 152 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Training Flight Phase : Final Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.CIass D : ZZZ Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : FBO Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Student Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 21 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 21 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 21 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1494804 Human Factors : Situational Awareness
Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person : Gate / Ramp / Line Reporter Organization : FBO Function. Other Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1494797 Events Anomaly Conflict : NMAC Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control Miss Distance.Horizontal : O Miss Distance.VerticaI : 150 When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.FIight Crew : Executed Go Around / Missed Approach Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I was on my 5th landing in the pattern of my first solo. On the upwind, ATC told me that I was #3 to land and to follow traffic entering the downwind, which I had in sight. I extended my upwind to follow the traffic. When I was about midfield of the downwind, I saw a plane below me land which I thought was the plane I was told to follow because I no longer saw a plane in front of me. I turned to final and was told to go around because an airplane was below me. I went around, making left traffic, saw the other plane break off, and landed uneventfully. Once I got on the ground, my instructor briefed me on the situation and what happened. I unknowingly ended up 150 feet above the plane I was told to follow as I approached final. The other plane had extended their downwind longer than I had, so we were approaching final at the same time. I never saw the plane once I had turned downwind. The plane that I saw land was #1 in the pattern, and I thought this was the plane I was following. Therefore, I thought the plane I was following had already landed, and I turned in to land thinking the plane I was following was already on the ground. Narrative: 2 I went up with one of my students for 3 touch and go's prior to their first solo. I had determined that [the student was] proficient and got out of the plane and told [the student] to do 5 touch and go's. I had gone up to the control tower to watch. The first four patterns and touch and go's were event free. On the fifth and final landing was when the near miss occurred. There were two other aircraft in the pattern at the time, one of which was midfield downwind. The other was about .5 miles approaching abeam the departure end downwind. My solo student was given traffic to follow while [the student] was still on
the upwind, the traffic was on the downwind almost abeam my student. My student acknowledged traffic in sight and was cleared to land. My student was at this point number three in the pattern, I do not recall if [the student] was cleared to land number three or just to follow the traffic and cleared to land. From the viewpoint in the tower nothing was out of the ordinary until both the controller and I at the same time saw my student had turned final over the top of the traffic [the student was] to be following. With both aircraft on final and vertical separation of what appeared to be 150ft my student was told to go around which [the student] did and returned for landing uneventfully after that. Meanwhile the other aircraft on final had chosen to go around and break 45 degrees off of final to the east. After the flight I had debriefed with my student thoroughly as to what had occurred. It became evident to me that upon turning downwind [the student] had thought the first aircraft in the pattern whom had landing was actually the second aircraft that she was told to follow. This led to a loss of situational awareness, and upon never seeing [the] actual traffic to follow on downwind or final allowed a loss of separation when both aircraft ended up in the same place on final. Synopsis C152 student pilot and instructor reported the student executed a go-around when Tower Controller noticed loss of separation between the student's aircraft and another on short final.
Time / Day Date : 201711 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : YIP.Airport State Reference : MI Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 1700 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 12000 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : YIP Aircraft Operator : FBO 10 Make Model Name : Skyhawk 172/Cutlass 172 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Training Flight Phase : Climb Airspace.Class D : YIP Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.Tower : YIP Make Model Name : Small Aircraft Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Flight Phase : Initial Approach Airspace.CIass D : YIP Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : FBO Function.Flight Crew : Instructor Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 450 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 75 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 350
ASRS Report Number Accession Number : Human Factors : Training / Qualification Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly Conflict : NMAC Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.Horizontal : 200 Miss Distance.VerticaI : 50 When Detected : In-flight Result.General : None Reported / Taken Assessments 1494794 Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 [We were] doing a no flap slip to land, and performed a Go-Around at 200 ft AGL. Climbed up to 700 ft AGL and turned out like on a normal takeoff. On the crosswind to downwind turn noticed the traffic that we were following previously. We had flown right into their path. It is worth noting that the traffic did really wide pattern legs, which probably was factor in the incident. Also we never got an alert from the Tower Controller and we never got an alert on our traffic alert system (T IS). Things that could have prevented this occurrence or to correct the situation: Alert from Tower or on T IS, and after performing the Go-Around climbed out to pattern altitude before turning. Also teaching pilots to keep the pattern in closer would have also helped out this situation. Synopsis C172 Instructor Pilot reported a NMAC in the pattern at YIP airport.
Time / Day Date : 201711 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : MOI.Airport State Reference : TN Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 1300 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 6200 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : MOI Aircraft Operator : Personal 10 Make Model Name : Small Aircraft, High Wing, 1 Eng, Fixed Gear Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Final Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.CIass E : M03 Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Make Model Name : Small Aircraft, High Wing, I Eng, Fixed Gear Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass E : M03 Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Private Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 370 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 21 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 370 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1494165
Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 Communication Breakdown. Party2 Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Conflict : NMAC Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter Detector.Automation : Aircraft TA Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.Horizontal : 250 Miss Distance.VerticaI : 50 When Detected : In-flight : ATC : Flight Crew : Weather / Turbulence Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I was on the RNAV 17 approach into DeWitt Spain airport (MOI) and shortly before passing the FAF, I had visual contact with the runway and cancelled IFR. I had been monitoring the CT AF at DeWitt Spain for the past 20 minutes and considering there was no traffic on frequency, the Approach Controller did not report any conflicts, and the wind was favoring Runway 17, I elected for a straight-in approach. I used the RNAV 17 approach plate as guidance for my descent, and started descending from 1,900 feet after passing VAGDY. At this point, the non-pilot passenger in the right seat brought my attention to a target on the GIOOO MFD that was reported to be 200 feet below our position, and on an intersecting track from the left. I increased my scan to my left and did not see anything initially. At approximately 1,300 feet, our altitudes were reported to be equivalent and my passenger and I simultaneously made visual contact with the target. I determined that our current heading would likely result in a collision and took evasive maneuvers, entering a steep bank to the left and adding power to stop our descent and enter a slight climb, since the target was slightly below our altitude. I was able to regain visual contact with the target after this turn, and it passed harmlessly to our right in the opposite direction. We were close enough that I could identify the registration number, but I was unable to copy down the numbers. After re-establishing my approach, I called back Memphis TRACON on 119.1 and reported a near-miss on approach. The controller gave me a [phone number] to call after I landed and we spoke over the phone about the incident. From the target's track and altitude, I assume they had departed Charles Baker (2M8) and were making a westbound departure. 2M8 and MOI are in close proximity to one another (7 miles) and use different CT AF frequencies, which would also explain why there was no announcement on the MOI CTAF. The ceiling at MOI at the time was reported to be BKN062; however, I was still in IMC at 3,000 feet approaching FAXIP, and didn't break out into VMC until after I had started the approach, which is why I elected to continue along the approach path to a landing rather than entering a standard traffic pattern. Synopsis
GA pilot reported a NMAC while on approach to DeWitt Spain airport. No traffic information was provided by ATC
Time / Day Date : 201710 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : MIA.Airport State Reference : FL Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 2400 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : MIA Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Large Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Climb Route In Use : Vectors Airspace.Class B : MIA Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.Tower : MIA Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Small Aircraft, Low Wing, 2 Eng, Retractable Gear Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Photo Shoot Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : None Route In Use : VFR Route Airspace.Class B : MIA Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Facility : MIA.TRACON Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Departure Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos 1 (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1492741 Human Factors : Situational Awareness
Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1492882 Person : 3 Reference : 3 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 15000 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1492872 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown. Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Conflict : NMAC Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector.Automation : Air Traffic Control Detector.Automation : Aircraft RA Detector. Person : Flight Crew Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.FIight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 I was working Departure position. Aircraft X checked in climbing to 2,000 feet which is an unusual altitude since departures are issued 5,000 feet unless otherwise coordinated. I climbed the aircraft to 7,000 feet to remain within my airspace. Aircraft Y was on a limited data tower (T) tag heading northbound. The Conflict Alert went off and I issued traffic to Aircraft X who was about to merge with Aircraft Y that appeared to be on a southbound
heading. I had no knowledge that Aircraft Y was operating within the confines of the departure corridor at 2,600 feet. No coordination was ever done with me about the aircraft or that departures would be climbing to 2,000 feet only. I did not see the aircraft operating in the departure corridor at an altitude that, in my opinion, is unsafe. T (Tower) tags are seen constantly throughout the day because numerous helicopters, state police, Miami police, and emergency aircraft operate within the Tower Area 500 feet or below. Any other unusual situation or aircraft that would be operating at a different altitude is coordinated with appropriate sectors, however, this was not done with me. After the event it was brought to my knowledge that the other Departure Controller coordinated with the Local Controller in the tower for Aircraft Y to be in the area doing survey/photo air work. The Supervisor in the TRACON verbally coordinated with the approach controllers about the aircraft as he ventured into the approach airspace as well. No coordination verbally, or a point-out was ever done with me. Aircraft Y also had 18 TARP (Traffic Analysis and Review Tool) hits on him which shows that he was in an unsafe area to be working. It is unsafe to be issuing departing aircraft 2,000 because they could become a conflict with low level IFR aircraft that operate 10 miles from MIA at 2,000 feet. Aircraft should not be allowed to operate at the altitude in such close proximity to the airport especially at times of arrival or departure banks. Coordination/Communication needs to be done with all sectors prior to allowing an unusual situation to occur. The controller that is initially coordinating and approving air work to be done needs to communicate with all other sectors and controllers that Will be impacted. They must "close the loop" and not leave sectors in the dark or without information that is going to impact their operation. Aircraft doing air work in the departure corridor should be speaking with a Departure Controller or if they are on the Tower frequency then departure aircraft should not be switched to the departure controller until they are not a factor with the other aircraft on the Tower frequency. Traffic should be issued to the Departing aircraft by the Local controller if he has both aircraft on his frequency. We should not jeopardize the safety of the operation and multiple passenger airlines for someone who wants to take pictures during busy times of the day. It is not unusual for controllers to feel pressured by the supervisor in charge to accommodate these photo missions or aircraft doing survey work even at times when the controllers feel it is unsafe to be allowing it. The dynamic needs to be changed. If a controller feels that an aircraft working in a location is going to impact the operation or the safety of the operation they should be supported by the supervisor not pressured to be put in an uncomfortable working environment. The supervisor also needs to be making sure that ALL CONTROLLER AND SECTORS that will be impacted are informed, coordinated with and on board with the unusual situation that will be occurring. Narrative: 2 I was the First Officer and PF on Aircraft X. We were instructed to line up and wait. Our clearance was to climb to 5,000 feet via an ATC assigned heading. The previous departure was told to level off at 2,000 feet so we had the discussion to be aware this could also receive a similar change in clearance. We were cleared to take off, assigned heading 270. Once airborne we were instructed to level off at 2,000 feet. We did. As we were cleaning up, we were instructed to climb to 7,000 feet from Departure Control. I initiated a climb, with autopilot on. Climbing through approximately 3,500 feet, we received a "TRAFFIC
TRAFFIC" alert from TCAS. I remained on instruments while the Captain looked for the traffic. As he pointed to the traffic, I looked up at the window to my right and saw a light twin at same altitude In a very sharp to its right, and a shallow climb in extremely close proximity to us and our flight path. We had a pretty good climb rate going at the time but didn't feel that it was sufficient to maintain safe separation from the light twin. As I was in transition back to instruments and about to disconnect the autopilot, I heard the TCAS advise "MAINTAIN VERTICAL SPPEED". Simultaneously I elected to go to TOGA (maximum available power) to get a better climb rate going as TCAS commanded "INCREASE CLIMB". Again, I had the initial feeling that since we were already at CLIMB POWER and at max climb for that power setting, TOGA was needed to get the initial climb we needed to stay clear of that traffic. Once I heard "CLEAR OF CONFLICT" and the Captain confirmed, I returned to normal climb profile and climb power, reengaged the AP and confirmed that the aircraft was in proper configuration for that phase of flight and the FMC was indicating desired autopilot functions to continue with ATC instructions. The Captain notified ATC of the conflict, RA, and recovery and that we were going to file a report on this event. The Controller replied that they had already notified their supervisor. I don't believe that the light twin was being controlled on our frequency because we didn't hear any transmissions to or from that aircraft. Narrative: 3 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis MIA Departure Controller and flight crew reported a NMAC with a VFR aircraft operating in the departure corridor.
Time / Day Date : 201710 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : APA.Airport State Reference : CO Relative Position. Distance. Nautical Miles : 1 Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 300 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : 10 Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 8000 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : APA Aircraft Operator : FBO Make Model Name : Skyhawk 172/Cutlass 172 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Training Flight Phase : Final Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.Class D : APA Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory. Tower : APA Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Light Sport Aircraft Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Final Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.CIass D : APA Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : FBO Function.FIight Crew : Instructor Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying
Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification. Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 624 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 183 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 345 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1492716 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Conflict : NMAC Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.Horizontal : O Miss Distance.VerticaI : 10 When Detected : In-flight : Clearance Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 My student and I were on an extended downwind to follow traffic over Cherry Creek Reservoir on a straight in approach to 17L. I entered the base to follow traffic and Aircraft Y was instructed to follow us. As we reached the 1 mile point on final approach, I saw Aircraft Y fly right under us and intercept the final approach course. I immediately increased power and performed a go-around while contacting Centennial Tower to find out what happened. I was instructed to offset to the right of the runway (west of 17R) on my go-around. I complied and immediately requested a full-stop terminate on 28 in order to get on the ground as soon as possible. I asked tower for clarification on what happened and they informed me they were discussing it and would get back to me. After landing and shutdown I called the tower supervisor to get clarification on the chain of events and was informed that Aircraft Y failed to follow assigned traffic, which was me, and cut me off on final approach. Aircraft Y pilot lost sight of me and only saw the airplane over the numbers which was the traffic I was sequenced behind. I believe the reason Aircraft Y didn't see me was because we were on a collision course and there was no relative movement in his windscreen to alert him to my presence. Upon losing sight of me, Aircraft Y should have immediately requested a traffic update from tower which would have prevented the near miss. Another factor that could have attributed to the near miss is the design of both aircraft. I was flying a high-wing [aircraft] and he was in a low-wing [aircraft]. That could have contributed to the visibility issues as I only saw him through my side window as he flew directly beneath me. Synopsis GA flight instructor reported a NMAC on final approach to APA when another aircraft turned base prematurely.
Time / Day Date : 201710 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : 7S5.Airport State Reference : OR Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.VisibiIity : Light : Daylight Ceiling : CLR Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC/ Advisory.CTAF : 7S5 Aircraft Operator : Personal 10 Make Model Name : Small Aircraft, Low Wing, I Eng, Fixed Gear Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission. Other Flight Phase : Initial Climb Airspace.Class G : 7S5 Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.CTAF : 7S5 Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Amateur/Home Built/ExperimentaI Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use : None Airspace.CIass G : 7S5 Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Glider Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 3000 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 50
Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 25 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1492713 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown. Partyl : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly.Conflict : NMAC Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.Horizontal : O Miss Distance.Vertical : 100 When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Departed 7S5 Runway 34 with glider in tow, announced departure and routine cautionary message of: (Tow plane and glider departing 34 using non-standard right hand traffic pattern. Power[ed] traffic please use published left hand traffic pattern). Turning to right down wind a small [powered] aircraft emerged from under my raised left wing passing over the canopy at an estimated range of 100 ft. Spoke with the pilot of the [small powered aircraft] who stated he saw the tow plane and glider climbing out of the airport but could not determine our intended direction of flight. Pilot also stated he did not hear our radio announcement as we departed the airport. 7S5 is a rural uncontrolled airpark community with a glider operating opposite the published traffic pattern for safe separation of glider and power[ed] traffic. A recommended corrective action: Practicing a greater situational awareness to potential air traffic. Synopsis Tow plane pilot reported a near mid air collision with an aircraft while climbing with glider in-tow.
Time / Day Date : 201710 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : SBD.Airport State Reference : CA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 3571 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 17999 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Ultralight Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 103 Flight Plan : None Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Climb Route In Use : None Airspace.CIass E : SCT Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Aircraft Operator : Personal 10 Make Model Name : Cessna Single Piston Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Final Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.CIass E : SCT Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.FIight Crew : Sport / Recreational Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 2000 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 63 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 2000
ASRS Report Number Accession Number : Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Conflict : NMAC Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.Horizontal : O Miss Distance.VerticaI : 100 When Detected : In-flight Result.General : None Reported / Taken Assessments 1492712 Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I was mid-way through my 4th revolution while turning in a weak thermal when I heard the distinct turbine whine of a light aircraft magneto. I looked up and behind me and observed a Cessna 172 or 152 approximately 100 FT above my hang glider on glide with its propeller wind milling. It appeared to be on a 160-degree course heading and proceeded away from me uninterrupted. Because I was in direct sunlight and the large holographic reflective surfaces on my leading edges would have been easily visible for 5 miles I have to assume the pilot was curious and glided toward me intentionally. Obviously, I don't know whether the pilot thought he was seeing a Mylar party balloon or knew it was a hang glider but in any event the incursion looked intentional and at 100 FT proximity was unsafe. Synopsis Hang glider pilot reported a near-mid-air-collision with a general aviation aircraft.
Time / Day Date : 201710 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : SMO.Airport State Reference : CA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 1900 Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : SMO Make Model Name : Challenger 300 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use.VOR / VORTAC : SMO Flight Phase : Final Approach Airspace.CIass B : LAX Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Operating Under FAR Part.Other Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass B : LAX Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.Flight Crew : Captain Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1492509 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly Conflict : NMAC Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight : Published Material / Policy : FAR Result.General : None Reported / Taken
Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Established on VOR-A into SMO, between BEVEY and WURUD intersections, 1900 to 2000, PM saw two drones whiz by the windshield 15-20 ft on both sides, and called them out. The event was over so quickly that I did not have enough time to look up from instruments and actually see the drones. Somebody was playing with their drones too close to an airport and too high. It is a little scary to think that these drones could have been there intentionally, and perhaps even with a small pack of explosives strapped to them. There was no time to react. We were just lucky that we missed them. Recommend stricter drone policies. Synopsis CL300 Captain on approach to SMO reported a NMAC with two UAVs.
Time / Day Date : 201710 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : STP.Airport State Reference : MN Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 2500 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility : Cloudy Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 3500 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : STP Aircraft Operator : Corporate Make Model Name : Citation X (C750) Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.Class E : M98 Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Other Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass E : M98 Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Corporate Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument
Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 11550 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 85 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 2200 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1492367 Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Human-Machine Interface Events Anomaly Conflict : NMAC Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.Horizontal : 50 When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 While approaching Runway 32 in St. Paul, Minnesota we had briefed the visual approach to the runway backed up by electronic guidance, the ILS. The weather was day VFR, and once we descended below the lowest cloud layer and had visually sighted the airport, we were setting up for a right base entry to land Runway 32. We were at an altitude of 2,500 feet MSL, 1,800 feet above ground level, in "Class E" airspace underlying the more restrictive "Class B" airspace associated with the main airport in Minneapolis. We were approximately five miles from the airport at an airspeed of approximately 160 knots, fully configured for landing and the "Before Landing" checklist completed, but had not yet intercepted the localizer. I was the flying pilot. I was looking inside the cockpit at the multi function display setting up to align the aircraft for landing, when the pilot monitoring called out to look out for another aircraft. I looked outside in time to see a man flying a powered parachute and immediately kicked off the auto pilot and rolled the plane into a sharp right bank to miss him. We can't be for sure how close we came to hitting this person but feel we were fortunate to have missed him. Both of us could see his face as we were that close. Prior to landing and after landing, the pilot monitoring provided as much information to the St. Paul Tower as we could concerning the near miss for their record keeping and reporting. This person was approximately 1,800 feet above the ground and presumably did not know the direction St. Paul's airport was landing. In our opinion, he was too close to the airport given the height above ground he was flying. ATC had no idea he was there as these aircraft are not required to have transponders or radios. It was perfectly legal for him to be in "Class E" airspace with no radio or transponder, but not safe. These types of aircraft do not require a pilot's license or any kind of airspace knowledge test to legally operate them, and pose a serious clear and present danger to other aircraft, similar to the threat drones do if operated near airports. This situation reinforces our SOP's to not only have a sterile cockpit below 10,000 feet, but also to have the pilot monitoring to be vigilant in looking out for other aircraft. Synopsis
Cessna 750 Captain reported an NMAC during approach with unreported powered parachute operating in close proximity of airport.
Time / Day Date : 201710 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ADS. Tower State Reference : TX Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 2400 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 12000 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : ADS Aircraft Operator : Personal 10 Make Model Name : PA-28 Cherokee/Archer/Dakota/Pillan/Warrior Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Training Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Direct Airspace.CIass D : ADS Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory. Tower : ADS Make Model Name : Any Unknown or Unlisted Aircraft Manufacturer Flight Phase : Initial Approach Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Instructor Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 17000 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 60 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 200 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1492269 Human Factors : Situational Awareness
Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Conflict : NMAC Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Excursion From Assigned Altitude Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.Horizontal : O Miss Distance.Vertical : 100 When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 After being cleared to land we began our descent from 2,500 FT MSL. The controller called us as traffic to another aircraft and asked us to maintain 2,500 FT. We leveled at 2,400 FT and began looking for traffic when I noticed him coming straight at us. I took control of the aircraft simultaneously pushing the nose over and advised tower we were descending. He abruptly told us that before beginning a descent that he needed to know. I stated it was a noise abatement maneuver as we were on a collision course. Synopsis GA flight instructor reported a near-mid-air-collision after receiving a clearance to land.
Time / Day Date : 201710 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 1400 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : PA-28 Cherokee/Archer/Dakota/Pillan/Warnor Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Training Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass D : ZZZ Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Skyhawk 172/CutIass 172 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Initial Climb Airspace.CIass D : ZZZ Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Instructor Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 750 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 100
Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 450 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : Human Factors : Situational Awareness 1492257 Events Anomaly Conflict : NMAC Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.HorizontaI : 30 Miss Distance.Vertical : O When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 We were extended upwind after a touch and go on Runway XX, we proceeded to turn crosswind at traffic pattern altitude then we made the turn to downwind. After making our turn on the downwind Aircraft Y was wings level in crosswind within 30 ft after being instructed to fly west bound after departing Runway XX behind us. I had to make an evasive correction and descended immediately to avoid the Cessna flying toward us at the same altitude. I believe that this occurred due to either a lack of understanding of the instruction given to the pilot of the Cessna or a failure to maintain situational awareness by ignoring radio calls from tower. The pilot of the Cessna responded to tower after about 3 or 4 calls. Synopsis GA flight instructor reported a near-mid-air-collision in the pattern when another pilot did not follow tower instructions.
Time / Day Date : 201710 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : SFO.Airport State Reference : CA Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : SFO Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Final Approach Airspace.CIass B : SFO Aircraft : 2 ATC / Advisory.Tower : SFO Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B737 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Final Approach Airspace.CIass B : SFO Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Function.FIight Crew : Captain Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 10734 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 6729 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1491827 Person : 2
Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 408 ASRS Report Number Accession Number . • 1491844 Events Anomaly.Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly.Conflict : NMAC Detector.Automation : Aircraft RA When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.FIight Crew : Executed Go Around / Missed Approach Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Cleared from ARCHI to PONKE to intercept 28L final approach course. ATC said there was a 737 at 3 0'clock for 28R. Did not see that airplane. ATC said the 737 has us in sight. We continued. I saw the TCAS of the 737 coming towards us, but did not see the airplane visually, I thought from looking at TCAS he was behind our right wing. The TCAS rapidly went from 500 ft difference to 400, 300, 200 we initiated the RA as soon as we heard it. I saw the TCAS as low as a 100 foot differential but did not see the airplane until they were banking away from us and we were on the Go around. First Officer said that he could make out the pilot! Thank you TCAS for getting me out of there before they hit us. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis Air Carrier Crew reported a NMAC on approach to SFO runway 28L with an airliner on visual approach to runway 28R.
Time / Day Date : 201710 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : MDT.TRACON State Reference : PA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 3600 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : MDT Make Model Name : PA-60 600 Aerostar Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Flight Plan : IFR Flight Phase : Descent Route In Use : Vectors Airspace.CIass E : MDT Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.TRACON : MDT Make Model Name : SR20 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Flight Plan : VFR Flight Phase : Climb Airspace.CIass E : MDT Person Reference : I Location Of Person.FaciIity : MDT.TRACON Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Approach Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1491741 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Conflict : NMAC Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Crew Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control
When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Aircraft X was inbound on an IFR flight plan from the southwest initially at 5000 feet. Aircraft X was issued a descent to 3000 feet, at which time I noticed a VFR tag, which had recently departed climbing through 2500 feet southbound. I issued a preliminary traffic call to Aircraft X. When they were roughly 5 miles apart and Aircraft X was descending through 3800 feet, the VFR aircraft was climbing through 3200 feet, the VFR aircraft called me for advisories. I had them ident to be sure, then issued an immediate right turn westbound and issued a right turn eastbound to Aircraft X. The other aircraft, Aircraft Y, was very slow to take the turn, but continued his climb as Aircraft X continued his descent. The targets merged at 3600 feet, with the pilot of Aircraft X exclaiming "that was close" on the frequency. Aircraft Y informed me that he had stopped his turn because he believed it would put him in more conflict with Aircraft X. My initial judgment based on their tracks and climb/descent rate led me to believe the best course of action was to use vectors to separate, but the delay and lack of commitment to the turn by Aircraft Y exacerbated the conflict and I did not issue any further altitude restrictions to try to mitigate the conflict, as I assumed they wouldn't be able to take effect until they were already through the other's altitude. I did not stress the immediate nature of the necessity to turn, or insist on a sharper turn rate for either aircraft, and the slow turns from each made the conflict more significant than if they had not turned at all. Although I recognized the potential for conflict early, I waited too long to issue positive control instructions to my IFR aircraft to steer well clear of the other aircraft. By the time I positively identified the VFR aircraft and gleaned his intentions, the need for resolution was imminent but I did not use words like "immediate" to stress this to the VFR aircraft. Ultimately, if I had decided to use altitude instead of vectors at the time of attempted resolution, the conflict would've been far less severe even if it required climbing my IFR back up before descending him again for the approach. I misjudged the delay in the turn, prompted additional information from the VFR prior to issuing a turn to the IFR, and failed to consider aircraft speed, winds aloft, etc., and their effects on both aircraft's ability to turn in a timely manner. When significant closure rates are happening and conflicting aircraft are inside of a certain distance apart, altitude separation is almost always the superior method to ensure some level of separation, even if not "standard." Synopsis A T RACON Controller reported his vectors for traffic were too late and insufficient to avoid a NMAC between their aircraft and an unidentified VFR track.
Time / Day Date : 201710 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 300 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : PA-28R Cherokee Arrow All Series Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Final Approach Airspace.CIass E : ZZZ Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Skyhawk 172/CutIass 172 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Final Approach Airspace.CIass E : ZZZ Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 560 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 20 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 20
ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1491216 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly.Conflict : NMAC Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.HorizontaI : 100 Miss Distance.VerticaI : 30 When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.FIight Crew : Executed Go Around / Missed Approach Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 Landings practice was in process with a full pattern. All traffic was starting to have a longer than necessary downwind. On my final a Cessna 172 approached me on base turning final under my altitude. I noticed them and took immediate corrective action by exiting the pattern to the right. Lack of communication was the largest problem in my opinion. Synopsis PA28 pilot reported that while on final a Cessna 172 turned base to final below him.
