ASRS Database Report Set Non-Tower Airport Incidents Report Set Description. .......................A sampling of reports involving operations at non- tower airports. Update Number.. .....32.0 Date of Update ............................. .December 28, 2017 Number of Records in Report Set............... Number of New Records in Report Set .....50 Type of Records in Report Set.. ......For each update, new records received at ASRS will displace a like number of the oldest records in the Report Set, with the objective of providing the fifty most recent relevant ASRS Database records. Records within this Report Set have been screened to assure then- relevance to the topic.
National Aeronautics and Space Administration Ames Research Center Moffett Field, CA 94035-1000 TH: 262-7 MEMORANDUM FOR: Recipients of Aviation Safety Reporting System Data SUBJECT: Data Derived from ASRS Reports The attached material is furnished pursuant to a request for data from the NASA Aviation Safety Reporting System (ASRS). Recipients of this material are reminded when evaluating these data of the following points. ASRS reports are submitted voluntarily. The existence in the ASRS database of reports concerning a specific topic cannot, therefore, be used to infer the prevalence of that problem within the National Airspace System. Information contained in reports submitted to ASRS may be amplified by further contact with the individual who submitted them, but the information provided by the reporter is not investigated further. Such information represents the perspective of the specific individual who is describing their experience and perception of a safety related event. After preliminary processing, all ASRS reports are de-identified and the identity of the individual who submitted the report is permanently eliminated. All ASRS report processing systems are designed to protect identifying information submitted by reporters; including names, company affiliations, and specific times of incident occurrence. After a report has been de-identified, any verification of information submitted to ASRS would be limited. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration and its ASRS current contractor, Booz Allen Hamilton, specifically disclaim any responsibility for any interpretation which may be made by others of any material or data furnished by NASA in response to queries of the ASRS database and related materials. Linda J. Connell, Director NASA Aviation Safety Reporting System
CAVEAT REGARDING USE OF ASRS DATA Certain caveats apply to the use of ASRS data. All ASRS reports are voluntarily submitted, and thus cannot be considered a measured random sample of the full population of like events. For example, we receive several thousand altitude deviation reports each year. This number may comprise over half of all the altitude deviations that occur, or it may be just a small fraction of total occurrences. Moreover, not all pilots, controllers, mechanics, flight attendants, dispatchers or other participants in the aviation system are equally aware of the ASRS or may be equally willing to report. Thus, the data can reflect reporting biases. These biases, which are not fully known or measurable, may influence ASRS information. A safety problem such as near midair collisions (NMACs) may appear to be more highly concentrated in area "A" than area "B" simply because the airmen who operate in area "A" are more aware of the ASRS program and more inclined to report should an NMAC occur. Any type of subjective, voluntary reporting will have these limitations related to quantitative statistical analysis. One thing that can be Imown from ASRS data is that the number of reports received concerning specific event types represents the lower measure of the true number of such events that are occurring. For example, if ASRS receives 881 reports of track deviations in 2010 (this number is purely hypothetical), then it can be known with some certainty that at least 881 such events have occurred in 2010. With these statistical limitations m mind, we believe that the real power of ASRS data is the qualitative information contained in report narratives. The pilots, controllers, and others who report tell us about aviation safety incidents and situations in detail — explaining what happened, and more importantly, why it happened. Using report narratives effectively requires an extra measure of study, but the knowledge derived is well worth the added effort.
Report Synopses
ACN:1483534 (lof50) Synopsis RV12 pilot reported that after landing on Runway 32 at GAI, the taxiways were not available due to construction. He was forced to taxi onto the grass due to an aircraft on short final. ACN: 1482595 (20f50) Synopsis Helicopter pilot reported a NMAC with a UAV shortly after takeoff from a hospital. ACN:1481817 (30f50) Synopsis Pilot reported parachute operations in the LMO vicinity put skydivers and aircraft in danger because of the zone's proximity to V220 and V85. Reporter also stated, regular CTAF communications may interfere with the "jumpers away" call. ACN:1481192 (40f50) Synopsis C172 pilot reported a hard landing resulted after he encountered rotor wash from a helicopter operating on the ground near the approach end of the runway. ACN:1480561 (50f50) Synopsis Phenom 300 flight crew reported that a tree protrudes into the normal 3 degree glideslope for Runway 17 at THV. ACN:1476706 (60f50) Synopsis Business Jet flight crew reported that upon taking the runway at MT J a GA pilot announced that he was going around. The crew reported that this was the first transmission from the GA Pilot. ACN:1476229 (70f50) Synopsis Dash 8 Captain reported executing a go-around after encountering wake turbulence on short final in trail of an E2 military aircraft. ACN: 1476076 (80f50)
Synopsis An instructor reported that his student, flying a light sport aircraft, was stuck on a runway with the brakes locked. The student injured himself in an attempt to check the brakes. ACN: 1476074 (90f50) Synopsis A PA28 Student Pilot reported that after damaging the aircraft during a go-around, the repair made by a local mechanic did not have the proper documentation. ACN: 1476071 (100f50) Synopsis DA20 flight instructor and student reported an NMAC with a Learjet departing JNX airport. ACN: 1475797 (11 Synopsis Diamond DA 20 pilot reported having a near collision with another aircraft while in the traffic pattern at a non-towered airport. ACN: 1475773 (120f50) Synopsis Bonanza 35 pilot reported an NMAC with another light aircraft in the pattern at MLE airport. ACN: 1475474 (130f50) Synopsis Cirrus Pilot reported going around after a bounced landing that resulted in a prop strike. ACN: 1475444 (140f50) Synopsis Pilot of a general aviation aircraft reported a near miss while landing at an uncontrolled airport because the wrong frequency was dialed in on the radio panel. ACN: 1475141 (150f50) Synopsis CISO instructor reported engine roughness and loss of power after demonstrating a slip at 3,000 feet with a recovery at about 100 feet AGL with a climb to pattern altitude and a successful landing. Instructor reported probable carb icing. ACN: 1475140 (160f50)
Synopsis GA pilot reported a taxiway excursion while taxiing to Runway 3 at JNX. ACN: 1474449 (170f50) Synopsis GA pilot reported being cutoff on final at BID by another GA aircraft that necessitated a go-around. ACN: 1474439 (180f50) Synopsis Turbojet pilot reported executing a go-around on the SZT Runway 02 final because a crane protruded into the runway's visual descent path. The crane is mobile and NOTAMed, but a danger to transient pilots and others. ACN: 1474435 (190f50) Synopsis SR20 flight instructor reported that another aircraft pulled onto the runway while they were on short final. ACN: 1473537 Synopsis Aeronca Pilot reported landing in an open field due to a loss of engine power. ACN: 1473534 (21 of50) Synopsis Corporate jet pilot reported unknowingly flying through a military drop zone at MZJ during final approach to AVQ. ACN: 1473146 Synopsis Ground observer reported witnessing an NMAC between two light aircraft on short final to DYL airport. ACN: 1473133 (23 of50) Synopsis M20E pilot reported that after being unable to raise the landing gear, the gear collapsed on the landing roll. ACN: 1473112 (240f50)
Synopsis GA pilot reported taking off over emergency services that were unknowingly on the runway. ACN: 1472462 (250f50) Synopsis C172 pilot reported an NMAC with an RV-7 on short final at 088 airport. ACN: 1472139 (260f50) Synopsis Cessna 172 pilot reported that during taxi the aircraft went off the taxiway damaging the lower part of the rudder. ACN: 1471858 (270f50) Synopsis PA28 pilot reported engine malfunction that resulted in an emergency landing. Following corrective maintenance and subsequent testing, a second takeoff was attempted with an additional emergency landing. ACN: 1471845 (28#50) Synopsis Helicopter instructor pilot reported a Near Mid-Air Collision in the traffic pattern due to an aircraft departing in the opposite direction. ACN: 1471547 Synopsis C140 pilot reported a ground conflict occurred afterlanding when another light aircraft touched down on the opposite direction runway. The aircraft passed each other midfield. ACN: 1471152 (300f50) Synopsis PA-28 pilot reported landing on a rural highway after experiencing an engine failure. ACN: 1470131 (31 Synopsis PA-28 pilot reported observing conflicting traffic and executed rapid evasive maneuver to avoid a midair collision that was not displayed on TIS. ACN: 1470114 (320f50)
Synopsis A C150 pilot reported taking evasive action to prevent airborne conflict with a no radios aircraft entering approach pattern to an uncontrolled airport. ACN: 1469546 (330f50) Synopsis DA20 student pilot and the observing CFI reported that upon landing during a solo flight the aircraft turned sharply and departed the runway. ACN: 1469242 (340f50) Synopsis GA pilot experienced an airborne conflict with another aircraft that had announced entering the pattern for Runway 20, but wound up on approach to Runway 02 in conflict with the reporter. Evasive action was taken by the reporter and the NORDO pilot departed to the south without making radio contact. ACN•. 1469241 (350f50) Synopsis C172 flight instructor reported striking a runway threshold light during landing with his student at the controls. ACN: 1469199 (360f50) Synopsis GA pilot departing using CTAF procedures reported a NMAC with a vintage aircraft departing on an adjacent runway without announcing on CTAF. ACN: 1469156 (370f50) Synopsis GA flight instructor reported taking evasive action from a helicopter as his student departed SCD following a touch and go. The helicopter did not have a radio installed. ACN: 1468447 (38 of50) Synopsis BE58 Baron Pilot reported a landing gear motor failure and manual extension. ACN: 1468296 (390f50) Synopsis Air carrier Captain reported questioning the wisdom of using BFF as an alternate with no tower, no gates, one frequency for CT AF and UNICOM, and no ACARS reception.
ACN: 1468195 (400f50) Synopsis C172RG flight instructor reported the student pilot inadvertently grabbed the gear handle instead of the carb heat and caused the nose gear to collapse on landing. ACN: 1468194 (41 of50) Synopsis A Cessna 172 instructor pilot reported the engine failed right after takeoff. ACN: 1468179 (420f50) Synopsis A flight instructor observer pilot reported not being assertive enough and allowed the pilot, who was presumably operating under VFR, to proceed to and land at an airport that was below VMC. ACN: 1467196 (430f50) Synopsis General aviation flight instructor reported a near mid air collision after departure from a CTAF airport. ACN: 1466538 (440f50) Synopsis HIO Tower Controller and pilot reported of a Class Delta airspace violation and a NMAC. ACN: 1466524 (450f50) Synopsis HCF Controller reported an airborne conflict between an IFR departure and a VFR aircraft. ACN: 1466511 (460f50) Synopsis Glasair pilot reported that during final approach prior to touchdown, a Pilatus took the active runway. ACN•. 1466499 (470f50) Synopsis Experimental aircraft pilot reported that his foot slipped off the rudder pedal on landing resulting in a runway excursion.
ACN: 1466180 (480f50) Synopsis PA34 pilot reported rejecting takeoff after observing unannounced traffic on short final landing on the opposite direction runway. ACN: 1466178 (490f50) Synopsis Cessna pilot reported an NMAC with another light aircraft in the vicinity of JNX airport. ACN: 1465911 (500f50) Synopsis Two instructor pilots, both flying separate C172 aircraft, reported an NMAC with each other In the pattern.
Report Narratives
Time / Day Date : 201709 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : GAI.Airport State Reference : MD Altitude.AGL.SingIe Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : 10 Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 12000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : GAI Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : RV-12 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Training Flight Phase : Taxi Route In Use : Direct Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Student Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 48 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 9 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 48 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events 1483534 Anomaly.Conflict : Ground Conflict, Less Severe Anomaly.Ground Excursion : Runway Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : Taxi Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action
Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Airport Narrative: 1 Airport Chart Or Publication GAI has published two NOTAMs that express the following information: TAXIWAY F, E, D, TAXIWAY PARALLEL TAXIWAY ADJACENT RUNWAY 14/32 BETWEEN TAXIWAY F AND TAXIWAY C CLOSED. XX SEP XA:22 2017 UNTIL YY Xl:oo 2017. And: TAXIWAY ALL BETWEEN SELF FUEL RAMP AND RUNWAY 14 THRESHOLD CLOSED. XX SEP XB:34 2017 UNTIL YY Xl:oo 2017 The NOTAMs only address the taxiways. No mention of the runway exits to the taxiways. NOTAMs lack any real actionable detail. Unfortunately, the A/FD (Airport/FaciIity Directory) diagram of the airport does not show any Of the taxiway designations - only shows the actual taxiways, not the labeling. Hence, a landing pilot cannot know that all of the runway 32 taxiway exits other than the first one are closed (for which, any aircraft other than a STOL aircraft won't be an option). These exits are closed, literally with zero asphalt. Hence, landings on either 32 or 14 require a taxi back at landing or departure with no ability to exit the runway at any other point than the start of 32 (which is not described in the NOTAMs). Here, I landed on 32 and because the taxiways were not available, I needed to taxi back. However, another aircraft was behind me on final. While I pulled off into the grass to avoid a possible on-runway conflict, the pilot in the twin behind me executed a go around successfully. The core Issue here is the appropriateness of how construction at this airport is undertaken. Without any taxiway (runway exits specifically) available, the potential for a realized conflict is much higher than it needs to be. The airport should have planned the construction in appropriate phases to avoid the unavailability of at least one exit at each end of the runway (regardless of the taxiway availability, minimally provide exit space to resolve a possible conflict), reducing the real possibility of an incident or accident. Given the very high traffic level at this airport, the approach to construction and closures was not well thought out in respect to flight safety. Synopsis RV12 pilot reported that after landing on Runway 32 at GAI, the taxiways were not available due to construction. He was forced to taxi onto the grass due to an aircraft on short final.
Time / Day Date : 201709 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 100 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Helicopter Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Mission : Ambulance Flight Phase : Climb Airspace.CIass G : ZZZ Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Operating Under FAR Part.Other Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass G : ZZZ Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification. Flight Crew : Commercial Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Rotorcraft ASRS Report Number Accession Number : Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Conflict : NMAC Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.HorizontaI : O Miss Distance.Vertical : 25 1482595
When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Near midair [with] a small drone flying one block east of the hospital. Our aircraft was on initial climb out at approximately 65 knots and was climbing from helipad to 2200 MSL. Elevation [at] time of near miss was probably 100-150 feet above helipad which is approximately 1250 MSL. The primary departure path from this helipad is standardized due to close noise sensitive areas and must be protected from drone activities and intrusions due to high flight volume around the hospital. We had to look up through the rotors to keep it in sight as it passed directly over the aircraft by about 25-50 feet. We saw it at the last second and had no time to react. Ground all private drones. They are going to cause a mishap with a manned aircraft, the regulations for their operation do not provide helicopters with a margin of safety that is acceptable to flight crews who cannot see them because they are too small. The drones also do not have lights or markings that aid in their visual acquisition. They also do not register on TCAS or other radar systems. Alternately, "no drone" fly zones within 1 NM of all hospital helipads. Synopsis Helicopter pilot reported a NMAC with a UAV shortly after takeoff from a hospital.
Time / Day Date : 201709 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : LMO.Airport State Reference : CO Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 8500 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : LMO Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Any Unknown or Unlisted Aircraft Manufacturer Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Descent Route In Use : Direct Airspace.Class E : DOI Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 4200 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 35 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 1200 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1481817 Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Distraction Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Other / Unknown
Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.HorizontaI : 500 Miss Distance.Vertical : O When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 Airport Airspace Structure Human Factors Procedure On a frequently flown direct-route round-trip route to and from BDU from the north, three open parachutes were encountered at or very near HYGEN intersection. There is a parachute symbol southwest of LMO between the LMO runway depiction and the HYGEN depiction on the sectional chart. HYGEN is also depicted on the IFR Low chart. The A/FD (Airport/FaciIities Directory) for LMO states "Parachute jumping on and invof arpt primarily of rwy, avoid overflights mid fld." Also in the A/FD there is a "Parachute Jumping Area" depicted as being nearly adjacent to taxiway B at LMO. In my opinion, parachute operations southwest of LMO are extremely hazardous and should be terminated. Parachutists drop paths vary considerably depending on winds, altitude, and other factors, and in this encounter their paths were very near HYGEN intersection, a crossing-point of two significant airways, V-220 and V-85. During a common VFR practice of tracking along and over airway routes and intersections such as HYGEN, airplanes' altitudes are often flown that are lower than IFR minimum crossing altitudes and that fact could put aircraft in conflict with free-falling parachutists that had exited their jump planes but had not yet descended to where they open their chutes, and therefore would be very difficult to see and avoid in time. HYGEN is less than a mile from the parachute depiction on the sectional chart. The parachute symbol is only about 1/3 of a mile from the approach path for the VOR- DME-A instrument approach for LMO, for which the approach path, based on a VOR, is variable since it is based on the positional limitations of BJC VOR that is 15 miles distant. The parachute symbol is similarly 1/3 of a mile from the approach path for the RNAV (GPS)-B approach into LMO. Both of these approaches are favorites for practice by locals in VMC, when parachutists are frequently active. The approach paths for both of these approaches crosses exactly over the "Parachute Jumping Area" that is depicted adjacent to taxiway B at LMO. In other words, a practice instrument approach would pass exactly through the parachutist's landing area at the airport essentially at the missed approach point. The AFD admonition to "avoid overflights mid fid" is in direct conflict with the instructions to be followed when practicing these two instrument approach procedures. The jump plane pilot routinely makes a call on the CTAF frequency when his jumpers are away, but a pilot approaching the airport may miss that one warning if he or she is listening to the LMO AWOS-3. Additionally, the jump plane pilot's communication could be blocked by other voice traffic on the CTAF. The "jumpers away" call is easily missed. If an aircraft is cruising just a thousand or two thousand feet below the jump plane when the "jumpers away" call is made, the aircraft's pilot may not be able to see free-fallers in time,
and not have time to avoid free-falling parachutists. I believe this situation is a disaster waiting to happen and I hope you can influence the powers that be to take action. I do not wish to publish this recommendation at some future time because of hearing of the death of a parachutist and possibly the occupants of an aircraft if a parachutist goes through the windscreen of an aircraft. Synopsis Pilot reported parachute operations in the LMO vicinity put skydivers and aircraft in danger because of the zone's proximity to V220 and V85. Reporter also stated, regular CT AF communications may interfere with the "jumpers away" call.
Time / Day Date : 201709 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : MDQ.Airport State Reference : AL Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 200 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 2000 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : MDQ Aircraft Operator : Personal : 20 Make Model Name : Skyhawk 172/Cutlass 172 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Final Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace. Class G : MDQ Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.CTAF : MDQ Aircraft Operator : Military Make Model Name : Chinook (CH-47) Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Ferry Flight Phase : Taxi Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Experience.Flight Crew. Total : 750 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 5
Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 550 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1481192 Events Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Unstabilized Approach Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 I was on a final stabilized VFR approach to runway 18 at MDQ and just about to flare when I encountered significant turbulence from a Chinook helicopter, both rotors turning, that was waiting to takeoff from a spot on the grass between the touchdown zone of runway 18 and the parallel taxiway. The turbulence hit me just at about the flare and I was barely able to salvage a very hard landing. This is an airport that has significant helicopter activity. I believe some airport rules should be considered to restrict this type of helicopter operation near the approach end of the active runway as an effort to eliminate/minimize such turbulence. Synopsis C172 pilot reported a hard landing resulted after he encountered rotor wash from a helicopter operating on the ground near the approach end of the runway.
Time / Day Date : 201709 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : THV. Airport State Reference : PA Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : THV Aircraft Operator : Fractional Make Model Name : EMB-505 / Phenom 300 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Final Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.CIass E : THV Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Fractional Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1480561 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Fractional Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1480559 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events
Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airport Contributing Factors / Situations : Chart Or Publication Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Ambiguous Narrative: 1 I was the PIC, and the Pilot Monitoring. The SIC was flying a briefed visual approach backed up with a RNAV (GPS) Rwy 17 approach which has a 3 degree Glidepath. Inside of a mile from the end of Runway 17, the SIC verbalized and adjusted aircraft pitch and rate of descent because a tree appeared to be close off the right nose. There were no Terrain, Obstacle, or Descent Rate warnings. A normal landing was made over a blast fence that was not noted on the 10-9 page. It was Day VFR when we flew this approach. If we had continued the approach as depicted, the tree on short final would have been very close to the 3 degree glidepath. This approach (T HV 12-1) was dated 18 Jul 14, and it's possible this tree had grown in the past 3 years. The PAPI is shown on the 10-9 page to be 4.5 degrees, quite a bit different than 3.0 degrees on the RNAV (GPS) 17 approach. Flying the PAPI angle at 120 knots would result in a descent rate of close to 1000 fpm. In addition, the blast fence was not mentioned on NOTAMS or on the 10-9 page. The 10-9 page also does not show the tree on short final. The 12-1 page for the RNAV (GPS) 17 does mention in note 3, that landing on Rwy 17 at night is not authorized. I feel that this approach is also not safe in IFR conditions. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis Phenom 300 flight crew reported that a tree protrudes into the normal 3 degree glideslope for Runway 17 at THV.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : MT J Airport State Reference : CO Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : MTJ Aircraft Operator : Fractional Make Model Name : Medium Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Ferry Flight Phase : Takeoff Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.CTAF : MTJ Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Skyhawk 172/Cutlass 172 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Final Approach Airspace.CIass E : ZDV Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Fractional Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1476706 Person : 2
Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Fractional Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1476707 Events Anomaly.Conflict : Airborne Conflict Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 While preparing to depart Montrose we were taxiing to runway 31 giving position reports of the status of our intentions to take off at runway 31. No aircraft responded except for a glider south of the field and we advised we were going north upon takeoff. Upon reaching the runway we scan the area I cleared the left area and my PM (Pilot Monitoring) in the right seat cleared the runway approach area. We then made another announcement that we are taking runway 31. Upon lining up with runway 31 we had an aircraft yelling at us [that] we had cut him off and was going around. At this time we had advanced the throttles and I looked at the TCAS and now saw an aircraft approximately 2 miles away at 700 ft AGL. Upon landing [a company representative] called and advised me that two witnesses and I called the company and advise them of what had taken place and gave their version of what they saw. [Personnel at the local FBO] saw both aircraft (they were physically at the approach end of 31 and heard the commotion on the radio they then stated that we were airborne before the small Cessna 172 was even at the threshold going around. I have the contact information of the two witnesses and both myself and my PM (Pilot Monitoring) did not see any aircraft in the area nor did we hear any transmissions before we announced taking the active runway. Again once we knew anything was happening we were already on the takeoff roll and the other aircraft advise they were going around. I feel we followed all SOP's and standard VFR callouts and the aircraft was just not seen or heard before he said he was too close and commented on the price of kerosene. Narrative: 2 Upon beginning taxi, I PM (Pilot Monitoring) began making position and intent reports on Unicom/CTAF as we began our taxi to rwy31. A glider responded to our initial report stating he was 5SW of the airport and were we going to conflict with him. I discussed our routing and stated there was no conflict, which he acknowledged. I announced we were "taking the active runway, 31, at Montrose" as we approached B-I onto B, and there was no response. Both crew members scanned the area and the TCAS. After we crossed the hold short bars on Bl, and about to make our turn to align on the runway, a Cessna stated his position as "short final". I confirmed his position on TCAS as being more than short final and his relative altitude as 800 ft and then 700 ft above us. I stated that we would be
out of his way in plenty of time. He then made a comment about kerosene costs and stated he was "going around". As the aircraft was still behind us, we continued a rolling take-off. When I made the "VI" call, I observed that the aircraft had yet to reach the runway. After our landing at [the destination airport], the PIC received a call from the company indicating that the pilot of the Cessna had contacted the company. The PIC then contacted two witnesses and just asked them what they saw, which coincided with the events. It appears that the Cessna pilot was angry that we had departed in front of him and executed a go-around to prove a point. According to second hand information from the FBO, the pilot was quite angry. Had the Cessna made position reports, there would have been dialogue as to when we were going to depart, and if he had felt uncomfortable, we would have delayed our departure, just as there had been dialogue with the glider. Due to our size, we should have been visible to the Cessna as we taxied out, thus reinforcing the need for position reports. This entire episode could have been avoided with proper AIM position reports. Synopsis Business Jet flight crew reported that upon taking the runway at MT J a GA pilot announced that he was going around. The crew reported that this was the first transmission from the GA Pilot.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Environment Light : Night Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Dash 8 Series Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Landing Airspace.Class E : ZZZ Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Military Make Model Name : Hawkeye (E2) Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Training Flight Phase : Climb Airspace.Class E : ZZZ Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1476229 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Analyst Callback : Attempted Events
Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Wake Vortex Encounter Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Unstabilized Approach Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Executed Go Around / Missed Approach Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 While on a 5 mile final to Runway XX in ZZZ, we noticed previously identified traffic on a left downwind leg starting what looked like a turn to a base leg. Unsure of his intentions, we asked the aircraft, at which point they informed us they would be out of our way by the time we got there. We responded by saying that would not work, and requested they do a 360 degree turn to fall in behind us. They responded by saying "0k, you're in sight." At this point the aircraft began a turn as we expected, however we believe they shot a low approach in the process, but it was difficult see. Once on short final, we saw them again making a climbing left crosswind turn. Our aircraft then crossed the threshold, and encountered wake turbulence just prior to the left main wheel touching the ground. This caused the aircraft to lose lift suddenly, and drift left of the centerline. The FO initiated a go-around. After the go-around we completed required checklists, I notified the flight attendant [and] passengers, and we landed uneventfully. Synopsis Dash 8 Captain reported executing a go-around after encountering wake turbulence on short final in trail of an E2 military aircraft.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 10000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal 10 Make Model Name : Any Unknown or Unlisted Aircraft Manufacturer Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Training Flight Phase : Landing Route In Use : Visual Approach Component Aircraft Component : Brake System Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : I Location Of Person : Hangar / Base Reporter Organization : FBO Function.Flight Crew : Trainee Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Experience.FIight Crew. Total : 1179 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 87 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 30 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1476076 Human Factors : Other / Unknown Events
Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Illness Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Other / Unknown Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected. Other Result.General : Maintenance Action Result.GeneraI : Physical Injury / Incapacitation Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Student was sent on his 4th solo to go to the north practice area and to do landings at ZZZ. About an hour into my student's flight he calls me and states that he thought the brakes were locked up after landing and he was still on the runway. He then got out of the aircraft with the engine still running to check the brakes out to see if he could fix it. After getting out of the aircraft he was struck by the propeller on his hand. He had been instructed to never get near a moving propeller and to never get out of an aircraft that is running. After being struck he then got back into the aircraft and was able to taxi the aircraft to an FBO and walked in by himself and was able to procure assistance from the staff inside then proceeded to the hospital. Synopsis An instructor reported that his student, flying a light sport aircraft, was stuck on a runway with the brakes locked. The student injured himself in an attempt to check the brakes.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 14000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : FBO 10 Make Model Name : PA-28 Cherokee/Archer/Dakota/Pillan/Warrior Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Landing Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.CIass G : ZZZ Maintenance Status. Maintenance Type : Unscheduled Maintenance Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved : Repair Component Aircraft Component : Stabilizer Fairing Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Improperly Operated Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : FBO Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.FIight Crew : Student Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 144 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 19 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 6 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1476074 Human Factors : Training / Qualification Human Factors : Situational Awareness
Events Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Unstabilized Approach Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Object Detector. Person : Maintenance Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : Routine Inspection Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action Result.Flight Crew : Regained Aircraft Control Result.Flight Crew : Executed Go Around / Missed Approach Result.Aircraft : Aircraft Damaged Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Weather Narrative: 1 During an authorized long distance cross-country student solo flight, attempted landing at ZZZ on runway 18. Wind was > 10 knots with gusts from 260 degrees. Had 25 degrees flaps. As the plane was about to touch down, a wind gust blew plane from right to left and past the edge of the runway. Was unable to maintain alignment with the runway. Executed a go-around and as power was brought in, the nose began to raise up slightly and as such the tail lowered. The left endcap of the stabilator struck a runway light. The impact was felt in the yoke. Remained in the pattern, and landed on runway 18. Had the plane refueled. Inspected the plane for damage. The left plastic stabilator endcap had a hole in it on the leading edge. Filled out an incident report at the airport terminal to report the damage to the runway light. An aircraft mechanic was available to effect a repair by fabricating and attaching a sheet metal patch. The plane was inspected for additional damage, none was found. Upon completion of the temporary repair, the plane was returned to service. The mechanic did not provide documentation for the repair other than a description on the cash receipt. I was ignorant of the fact that this is improper maintenance record keeping and subsequently learned that the aircraft should not have been placed back in service without proper documentation. The details described in this report were reported to the FBO/owner of the aircraft upon return two days later. The incident could have been avoided by selecting another airport prior to the flight when it was learned from a NOTAM that [other] runways [at ZZZ] were closed. The airport was chosen specifically because it offered multiple runways. This fact was missed because of fixated focus on local weather for making the go/no go decision for the flight and was not noted and added to the plan of flight. The fuel burn rate was over-estimated and there was more than adequate fuel available to have deviated from the plan of flight to another airport. The cross wind component was at the margin of my skill level and surpassed by the gusts, so upon listening to AWOS another opportunity to deviate was missed. The FAR requirements for signed documentation for returning an aircraft to service following a repair should have been known (43.9, 91.407). Synopsis
A PA28 Student Pilot reported that after damaging the aircraft during a go-around, the repair made by a local mechanic did not have the proper documentation.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : JNX.Airport State Reference : NC Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 600 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : JNX Aircraft Operator : FBO 10 Make Model Name : DA20 Undifferentiated Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Training Flight Phase : Initial Climb Airspace.Class G : JNX Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.CTAF : JNX Make Model Name : Bombardier Learjet Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Flight Plan : IFR Flight Phase : Initial Climb Airspace.CIass G : JNX Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.Flight Crew : Instructor Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 320 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 20 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 130
ASRS Report Number Accession Number : Human Factors : Situational Awareness Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.FIight Crew : Trainee Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial 1476071 Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 800 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 100 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 7 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1476109 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly Conflict : NMAC Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.HorizontaI : 500 Miss Distance.VerticaI : 300 When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 We took off from Runway 21 at JNX. At approximately 600 ft AGL on the upwind a Learjet that had taken off from the same runway after us passed beneath our left wing before we had turned left crosswind. We advised the jet that they had come close to us and they claimed that they had us in sight the entire time, however the jet had never informed the CTAF Of takeoff or any other callouts and when we spotted the jet it was uncomfortably close. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis DA20 flight instructor and student reported an NMAC with a Learjet departing JNX airport.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 1600 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : FBO Make Model Name : DA20-CI Eclipse Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Training Flight Phase : Landing Airspace.CIass E : ZZZ Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Aircraft Operator : Personal 10 Make Model Name : Cardinal 177/177RG Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Initial Approach Flight Phase : Landing Route In Use.Other Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : FBO Function.Flight Crew : Instructor Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 761 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 50 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 74 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1475797
Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly Conflict : NMAC Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.Horizontal : 400 Miss Distance.VerticaI : O When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I was with a first time student and performed a touch-and-go. A Cardinal called several miles out descending through I believe 3,500 feet with no bearing from the airport. I asked him and he responded to the SE and that the sun was in his face but he'd be looking. I reported entering the right crosswind then called entering the right downwind. The cardinal stated that he was at 2,500 feet on the right downwind. I again stated that I was on the right downwind and did not see the Cardinal and that I was about to enter the base leg. I had my student turn base and stated that I was on the base leg. As I looked toward the runway to decide when to tell my student to begin his final turn, I saw the Cardinal, at my 2 0'clock position, co-altitude (approximately 1,600 feet MSL) and approximately 400 feet laterally heading right toward my aircraft. My evasive action included adding full power and initiated a climb straight ahead. I do not remember what I said on the radio, but he told me that he saw me and turned to his left to go behind me. I told him that I did not expect him to be coming from directly overhead the runway. I was expecting him to be on a downwind leg. Once he was clear, I reduced the power, and brought the aircraft onto final approach and then let my student land the plane. My thoughts on how the near midair happened were the Cardinal flying into the sun approaching the airport and not entering and flying a proper traffic pattern and pattern altitude. Synopsis Diamond DA 20 pilot reported having a near collision with another aircraft while in the traffic pattern at a non-towered airport.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : MLE.Airport State Reference : NE Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 1000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : MLE Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Bonanza 35 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.Class E : MLE Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.CTAF : MLE Make Model Name : Cessna 400 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Phase : Final Approach Airspace.CIass E : MLE Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial 12 Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 775 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 7 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 222 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1475773 Human Factors : Situational Awareness
Events Anomaly Conflict : NMAC Detector.Automation : Aircraft TA Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.HorizontaI : O Miss Distance.VerticaI : 200 When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I was maneuvering near an airport to enter the pattern for Runway 30 when I had a near miss with another aircraft also entering the pattern. I had been on VFR flight following through a Class Charlie. ATC approved me to squawk VFR and change frequencies in an unusual location (just after I exited the Class Charlie, about 3.5 NM final and 1,900 ft AGL; I think they had previously kept me high to avoid wake turbulence). I circled away from the airport while descending slowly so I could turn toward the airport about 5 NM out at pattern altitude and be on a 45 to the downwind. I changed to CT AF and announced my position (I think I said I was descending and 3 NM southeast) and then heard another aircraft announce (I think he said he was descending and 5 NM south). I had been monitoring CT AF but hadn't heard the plane make any calls, and ATC hadn't mentioned it. The other aircraft asked me if I was straight in for 30; I said no. I thought I saw him, and I had him on TCAS (I have mode S displayed on a GNS 530W) about 5 NM in front of me heading directly across my path towards the airport. I assumed he would continue on that path and enter a downwind at about I NM parallel to the runway, which would have given us plenty of clearance from each other. I looked away to adjust power, etc.; when I looked back, I had lost hm, and my TCAS then said he was 2-3 NM in front of me, to my right but on an intercept, and about 500 ft above and descending (I think this would have put him 500 ft above pattern on a downwind about 4 NM out from the runway). He then called that he was on a downwind 4 NM out. I couldn't believe it and just stared at the screen for a moment, then frantically started looking for him; TCAS alarmed again, and then I turned sharply left and called, "Traffic, please climb, I'm trying to get out of your way, but you're heading straight at me. " He didn't answer and almost immediately passed over me at 200 ft above (according to TCAS; I didn't see him at this point). I think my main mistakes were assuming the other traffic would follow a particular pattern, and then not informing him immediately when I realized I'd lost him. I think his main mistakes were assuming that I would provide separation just because I said I saw him and would follow hm in, and then flying a non-standard pattern. It didn't help that we both have fast planes (Bonanza and Cessna Corvalis) and that I was not in a good place to enter the pattern in a standard fashion. I was possibly also slower to react because I've flown much less than usual recently, and most of that has been quiet cross country rather than in busy airspace. Unfortunately, the other pilot landed and had left the airport while I went around the pattern and taxied in, so I didn't have a chance to talk to him and see if he realized what had happened. I did ask the FBO to give him my phone number so we can talk about it. Synopsis
Bonanza 35 pilot reported an NMAC with another light aircraft in the pattern at MLE airport.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Weather Elements / Visibility.VisibiIity : Light : Daylight Ceiling.Single Value : 12000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal 10 Make Model Name : Cirrus Aircraft Undifferentiated Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Landing Route In Use : Visual Approach Component Aircraft Component : Propeller Blade Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Improperly Operated Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Private Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 1200 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 10 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 1000 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1475474 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events
Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Ground Strike - Aircraft Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Unstabilized Approach When Detected : Routine Inspection Result.FIight Crew : Regained Aircraft Control Result.FIight Crew : Executed Go Around / Missed Approach Result.Aircraft : Aircraft Damaged Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airport Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 While landing plane bounced several times. On third or fourth bounce I went around and landed uneventfully. Inspection Of the prop revealed a prop strike had occurred. There was no indication that the strike had occurred. I was concerned about the runway length. This runway had a non-landing portion before it, so I planned to am for this and land on or close to the numbers. When coming in I was low and slow, so I added some power but landing just short of the actual runway, this started the porpoise. In retrospect, I really should not have sweated the runway length which was only 500 ft shorter than my home field, and I should have just landed as I normally do, as I did on the go around. So the basic plan was flawed. Second when I was low and slow, I should have gone around, and finally I was slow to recognize the porpoise, and I initiated my go around one bounce too late. Synopsis Cirrus Pilot reported going around after a bounced landing that resulted in a prop strike.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : HAF.Airport State Reference : CA Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 1600 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : HAF Aircraft Operator : Personal 10 Make Model Name : Small Transport, Low Wing, 2 Recip Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Training Flight Phase : Landing Route In Use : Visual Approach Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Private Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 200 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 70 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1475444 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly Conflict : Ground Conflict, Critical Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.Horizontal : 75
Miss Distance.VerticaI : 500 When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 An aircraft was landing runway 12. We were landing runway 30. We mistakenly put 128.00 instead of 122.8 for the radio frequency. It is a keypad system. We were making radio calls but because we were on the wrong frequency no one heard it. We landed and saw them on final. We offset to the very right edge of the runway and they went around. Synopsis Pilot of a general aviation aircraft reported a near miss while landing at an uncontrolled airport because the wrong frequency was dialed in on the radio panel.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 3000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility • Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : FBO Make Model Name : Cessna 150 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Training Flight Phase : Descent Route In Use : None Airspace.CIass G : ZZZ Component Aircraft Component : Carburetor Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : FBO Function.Flight Crew : Instructor Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial 10 Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 477 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 72 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 12 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1475141 Events
Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Overcame Equipment Problem Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 After modeling a slip for my student with the airplane in its proper configuration, we experienced engine roughness at 3,000 feet MSL. We were on a 4 mile 45 entry for the downwind for runway 18. I established best glide, called our position, situation and intentions to the two aircraft in the area (which was to proceed inbound for a short approach landing due to engine roughness) then began to troubleshoot. I confirmed that the carb heat was full on, mixture full rich, fuel tanks on both with both being nearly full and fuel gauges checked normal. When we departed, both tanks were full at 26 gallons total and our flight according to the hobbs was 1.1. The mags also checked okay. Despite full throttle, we were in a steady descent with minimal engine power and unable to climb. Approximately I mile east of our downwind entry, it was evident we would not make the runway, and with housing between us, I opted to remain to the east, and aim for a field east of the housing. I continued my descent and prepared for a forced landing, while continuing to attempt to regain power. The two aircraft that were in the pattern had visual on our position. At approximately 100 feet AGL, I attempted the throttle one last time. The engine regained full power, was smooth, and I was able to establish a climb. I continued my climb and was able to establish an altitude to safely proceed over the housing which would allow me the option, should it occur again, to glide to either side of the development, at about 800 feet AGL. I was able to enter a short base and land without incident. The engine remained normal. Synopsis CISO instructor reported engine roughness and loss of power after demonstrating a slip at 3,000 feet with a recovery at about 100 feet AGL with a climb to pattern altitude and a successful landing. Instructor reported probable carb icing.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : JNX.Airport State Reference : NC Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Ceiling : CLR Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : JNX Aircraft Operator : FBO Make Model Name : Small Aircraft, Low Wing, I Eng, Fixed Gear Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Training Flight Phase : Taxi Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Corporate Function.FIight Crew : Instructor Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Experience.Flight Crew. Total : 1352 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 65 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 171 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1475140 Human Factors : Distraction Events Anomaly.Ground Excursion : Taxiway Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Loss Of Aircraft Control Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Object Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : Taxi Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 While taxiing to runway 3 at JNX, I became distracted by an aircraft that seemed to be having difficulty landing. I did not realize I had reached the end of the taxiway until I was very near the turn towards the threshold of runway 3. I was unable to stop and ran off the taxiway. Right rudder was applied to avoid striking the prop on a taxiway light. The left main tire struck the taxi light. As the aircraft began to skid down sloped terrain mixture was set to cut off, right rudder and up elevator was applied to try to prevent a prop strike. The engine stopped before the aircraft stopped moving. The aircraft appeared undamaged. No injury was sustained by pilot or passenger. Synopsis GA pilot reported a taxiway excursion while taxiing to Runway 3 at JNX.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : BID.Airport State Reference : RI Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 500 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : BID Aircraft Operator : Personal 10 Make Model Name : Small Aircraft, High Wing, I Eng, Fixed Gear Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Final Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.CIass G : BID Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.CTAF : BID Aircraft Operator : Corporate Make Model Name : Small Aircraft, High Wing, 1 Eng, Fixed Gear Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Final Approach Airspace.CIass G : BID Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Private Experience.Flight Crew. Total : 770 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 770 12
ASRS Report Number Accession Number : Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.Horizontal : 500 Miss Distance.VerticaI : 200 When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action 1474449 Result.Flight Crew : Executed Go Around / Missed Approach Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 While flying to Block Island State Airport (BID), reporting approximately 12 miles west of the airport at approximately 3,000 ft MSC, I inquired for advisories at Block Island Airport over the CTAF, 123.0 and I was advised that Runway 10 was in use. This made sense as the prevailing winds were reported at 080 degrees and 7 knots. A few aircraft were heading towards the airport and I communicated with at least two of the three known aircraft flying in the vicinity. While on a 3 mile final approach to Runway 10, I announced my position on the CT AF that I had the landing traffic ahead of me in sight and that I was following it in. When I was approximately 2 miles from the runway, I again announced my position and that I had a visual of the plane in front of me touching down. By this point my airplane was on "short approach" to Runway 10. No other aircraft announced they were on final approach. As I approached I mile from the threshold of Runway 10, approximately 500 ft AGL, I noticed another airplane swoop in at my 9 0'clock position (from my left) and overtake my airplane and swoop in lower than me to beat me to the runway. Horrified, I broke off from final approach and called a "go-around" and climbed out to pattern altitude of 1,107 ft MSL. I commented on the CTAF to the pilot of the other aircraft, who was not immediately identified, that he had performed an unsafe maneuver. The other pilot barked back, "I was ahead of you!" Clearly, he was not. In fact, the other pilot appears to have broken subsection g of "Right of Way" Rule 91.113: "(g) Landing. Aircraft, while on final approach to land or while landing, have the right-of-way over other aircraft in flight or operating on the surface, except that they shall not take advantage of this rule to force an aircraft off the runway surface which has already landed and is attempting to make way for an aircraft on final approach. When two or more aircraft are approaching an airport for the purpose of landing, the aircraft at the lower altitude has the right-of-way, but it shall not take advantage of this rule to cut in front of another which is on final approach to land or to overtake that aircraft. " After I re-joined the pattern and safely landed on Runway 10 about 10 minutes later, I was led by an airport marshal to park my airplane next to the one that had cut me off. The pilot and any person(s) who had been on the aircraft had departed the area. I would like to see the ALB FSDO investigate the pilot who nearly caused a mid-air collision with my airplane. He not only caused alarm to myself, but he horrified my 10-year-old nephew on his first single engine flight over water. I am grateful for my good aeronautical training to take evasive action to voluntarily break-off, climb, and go-around. The pilot of
the [other aircraft] appeared, at the very least oblivious to my presence and radio transmissions, but I believe to be reckless in his actions to speed up, since, he has a faster aircraft, and dive dangerously below my altitude to race me to the runway. This could have ended disastrously. Synopsis GA pilot reported being cutoff on final at BID by another GA aircraft that necessitated a go-around.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : SZT.Airport State Reference : ID Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 300 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : SZT Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Small Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Final Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Route In Use : Direct Airspace.CIass G : SZT Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Rotorcraft Experience.Flight Crew. Total : 11000 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 35 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 2000 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1474439 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Confusion Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Conflict : Airborne Conflict
Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Executed Go Around / Missed Approach Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 Flying into SZT saw NOTAM and ASOS saying a crane was off the north end of RWY 02 and 90 ft off centerline. Didn't pay too much attention, but on final, flying the PAPI lights, I had to go-around the top of the crane, which protruded some 60 ft into the PAPI glidepath. I took a photo looking north on RWY 02 and the crane was dead center in the runway centerline. The solution was to turn off the PAPI lights so it did not guide aircraft into the crane, which moved east and west during the day, but often within the runway width and extending into the PAPI glidepath. Seems that simple solution would have been to find some other way to do work on a bridge north of SZT, but FAA decided 0K, which baffles me from a safety standpoint. Call 208-263-3074 and listen to the current ASOS, which is better, but what if a transient pilot doesn't listen, or pay attention. Same risk on takeoff with low-performance aircraft hitting the crane. Synopsis Turbojet pilot reported executing a go-around on the SZT Runway 02 final because a crane protruded into the runway's visual descent path. The crane is mobile and NOTAMed, but a danger to transient pilots and others.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 100 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : FBO Make Model Name : SR20 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Training Flight Phase : Final Approach Airspace.CIass G : ZZZ Aircraft : 2 ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Vans Aircraft Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission. Other Flight Phase : Takeoff Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : FBO Function.Flight Crew : Instructor Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 600 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 300 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 40 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1474435
Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly.ConfIict : Ground Conflict, Critical Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Runway Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.HorizontaI : O Miss Distance.Vertical : 100 When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 RV pulled out in front of us (knowing he was) when we were on really short final. His radio call "RV departing RWY 34 we will be out before the cirrus". We got the pleasure of side stepping due to us being nearly on top of him. Synopsis SR20 flight instructor reported that another aircraft pulled onto the runway while they were on short final.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 3000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility : Haze / Smoke Weather Elements / Visibility : Rain Weather Elements / Visibility.VisibiIity : 7 Light : Daylight Ceiling.Single Value : 12000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Aeronca Champion Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Training Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.Class E : ZZZ Component Aircraft Component : Powerplant Fuel System Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial Qualification. Flight Crew : Flight Instructor ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1473537 Human Factors : Troubleshooting Human Factors : Situational Awareness Analyst Callback : Completed
Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Diverted Result. Flight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Result.FIight Crew : Landed As Precaution Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 On the way to ZZZ airport to get fuel the engine started to stutter. I immediately pulled carb heat, verified mixture full rich, and fuel selector on, fuel gauge showing to have fuel, oil pressure and temperature both in the green. I continually pumped the throttle, as that seemed to be the only thing to keep the engine running partially. I looked for the private grass strips that I know of in the area, I was too far and too low to make it to them so I continued toward the best field options I could see when I remembered a friend of my boss had a big field he said we could land at just north of ZZZ. I then located the field and proceeded to circle the field while performing my final check list. I secured the engine and preformed a textbook 3 point soft field landing. I called my boss and he promptly arrived with an aircraft mechanic to inspect the airplane. They found absolutely no evidence of a problem so they started the airplane and my boss flew it back to the airport where he could have it checked tested and fixed. NO one was injured, no damage to persons or property occurred, and the airplane was in perfect flying condition. The airplane is now grounded until the issue can be found, however, my boss could not duplicate the issue and the engine ran perfectly smooth on the way back to the airport. The only thing they could come up with to this point is carb ice or vapor lock. Those are just guesses seeing how the issue cannot be duplicated. Also, I used carb heat and it only seemed to escalate the issue, progressively losing power and never restoring fuel flow. When pumping the throttle the engine would start back up for about a second per pump. This continued for about 2 minutes before it stopped healing and the engine stopped completely. Callback: 1 The reporter stated that the field where he made the emergency landing was a field that they used for practicing soft field landing. He added that maintenance has replaced the fuel line precautionary and ensured that the carb heat was working properly. They were unable to determine the actual cause of the engine shutting down, but suspect icing was the probable cause since the aircraft has been operating normally since the incident. Synopsis Aeronca Pilot reported landing in an open field due to a loss of engine power.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : AVQ.Airport State Reference : AZ Relative Position. Distance. Nautical Miles : 7 Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 4500 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : 10 Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 10000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : AVQ Aircraft Operator : Corporate Make Model Name : Small Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Ferry Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Route In Use : Direct Airspace.CIass E : TUS Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Corporate Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification.FIight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 3200 Experience.FIight Crew. Last 90 Days : 90 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 220 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1473534 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown. Party2 : ATC
Events Anomaly Airspace Violation : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.FIight Crew : Exited Penetrated Airspace Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Primary Problem : Airspace Structure Narrative: 1 I was repositioning the aircraft to AVQ. Approximately 30 miles from Marana I started monitoring CTAF in my #2 radio. There was a Cirrus on a similar route as me that I was overtaking. I told Center that unless Tucson Approach had taken my handoff I would cancel IFR so that I could coordinate spacing to Marana with the VFR Cirrus. Center advised me that there was no other traffic observed between me and the Marana airport and frequency change was approved. I slowed down and configured early to keep spacing on final. The aircraft ahead reported over Pinal airpark shortly before I did; I then also reported over Pinal. A voice then came onto CTAF and advised me I had flown through an active military drop zone at Pinal. I apologized and landed normally. I have several concerns about the jump operation at Pinal. 1. I had briefed through DUATS before departure and saw no NOTAM for parachute activity at Pinal. 2. Center did not advise me of any jump activity over Pinal. Center and Approach typically will advise when the jump area over Pinal and other surrounding airports is hot. Absent this, I joined an extended final approach to 12 to allow time to slow and configure for spacing. 3. The aircraft ahead also reported over Pinal. If the jump zone went hot in the less than 3 minutes between CT AF reports with no advisory over Marana CTAF as well as Center and Approach not being aware, a serious conflict could develop. 4. Having a drop zone located on a 10 mile final to the calm wind runway at a busy non- towered airport with large amounts of jet traffic does not seem like a good idea to me. Synopsis Corporate jet pilot reported unknowingly flying through a military drop zone at MZJ during final approach to AVQ.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : DYL.Airport State Reference : PA Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC/ Advisory.CTAF : DYL Make Model Name : Small Aircraft Flight Phase : Final Approach Airspace. Class G : DYL Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.CTAF : DYL Make Model Name : Small Aircraft Flight Phase : Final Approach Airspace. Class G : DYL Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person : Gate / Ramp / Line Function.Ground Personnel : Other / Unknown ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1473146 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Conflict : NMAC Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.HorizontaI : O Miss Distance.VerticaI : 40 When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 From the ground I witnessed two airplanes on final to Doylestown airport have a near miss as they simultaneously turned to final. The lower aircraft was a high wing and the plane immediately above it was a low wing. I had previously held a student license and
estimated they were approximately 500 ft AGL. The [high wing aircraft] took evasive action turning west while the overhead plane continued to final. I estimated the distance between the two aircraft to be about 40 ft. Synopsis Ground observer reported witnessing an NMAC between two light aircraft on short final to DYL airport.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 6000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : M-20 E Super 21 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Landing Route In Use : Visual Approach Component Aircraft Component : Landing Gear Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Failed Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 449 10 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 18 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 78 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1473133 Events
Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Ground Strike Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected .0ther Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 - Aircraft After departing for home field, the landing gear failed to raise. When within range I called Unicom, advised the attendant of the situation, and asked him to stay on duty to visually verify that my gear was down. When I was adjacent to the terminal, he verified that the gear was in fact down. I had a green gear down light and with visual confirmation I landed the airplane. I felt the wheels on the pavement and immediately the airplane was on its belly. I shut everything down and got out. The airport attendant had closed the runway and met me at the airplane. He called a tow and we got the airplane back on its wheels and towed it to the hangar. It's worth noting that after being serviced [earlier this year], the gear had failed to raise as I departed for home. I returned to the shop and they worked on the squat switch for several hours before releasing it. I had not had any more issues until this incident. Synopsis M20E pilot reported that after being unable to raise the landing gear, the gear collapsed on the landing roll.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility : Haze / Smoke Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : 9 Light : Night Ceiling.SingIe Value : 6000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.UNICOM : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : PA-32 Cherokee Six/Lance/Saratoga/6X Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Takeoff Route In Use : Direct Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 1350 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 300 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 100 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1473112 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Ground Personnel Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events
Anomaly.Conflict : Ground Conflict, Critical Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.Horizontal : 2500 Miss Distance.VerticaI : 100 When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 [Airport] emergency services arrived as I was running up for departure, I questioned over Unicom whether emergency services were on the active runway and received a reply from a pilot who departed a few moments before me stating that they were not on the active runway. Since I was not able to directly see if they were or were not there I proceeded to takeoff and announced my departure on Unicom. After applying power and beginning my take Off roll the emergency personnel called in over the radio stating that they were on the runway. By that time I did not have the available distance to abort my takeoff and if I had it may have been more dangerous than continuing the takeoff. I rotated as soon as practical and made a sharp turn to the left to avoid overflying the cars/people on the runway. I made all reasonable attempts to ensure the runway was clear while emergency services made no attempt to announce their position. Synopsis GA pilot reported taking off over emergency services that were unknowingly on the runway.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : 088.Airport State Reference : CA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 500 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 12000 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : 088 Aircraft Operator : Personal 10 Make Model Name : Skyhawk 172/Cutlass 172 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Final Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.CIass G : 088 Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : RV-7 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Final Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.CIass G : 088 Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Private Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 268 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 132 12
ASRS Report Number Accession Number : Human Factors : Situational Awareness 1472462 Events Anomaly.Conflict : NMAC Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.Horizontal : 30 Miss Distance.VerticaI : 30 When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.Flight Crew : Executed Go Around / Missed Approach Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 [I was] practicing touch and goes, staying in the pattern making my radio calls at every phase of flight at traffic pattern altitude at a non-towered airport. [I] didn't hear any other pilots making radio calls. [I] made my radio call from right base to final looking and checking for traffic for Runway 25. I had a stabilized approach when suddenly another airplane had come from behind and over the top of me for landing. I side stepped and did a go around and landed. After the event I spoke with the other pilot. He told me he was on the wrong frequency. I asked him how he entered the pattern, he told me he was north east and entered a right base and he didn't see me. I was already on final at 500 ft. I told him that there [are] a lot of new students training at this airport and procedure is 45 entry to runway 25 at pattern altitude. He mentioned that he was familiar with the airport and visits frequently. I said we're both lucky that we're standing here and able to talk to each other to evaluate the near miss. Synopsis C172 pilot reported an NMAC with an RV-7 on short final at 088 airport.
Time / Day Date : 201705 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Night Ceiling.SingIe Value : 12000 RVR.Single Value : 10000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal 10 Make Model Name : Skyhawk 172/Cutlass 172 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Taxi Component Aircraft Component : Taxiing Light Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Failed Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 670 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 6 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 320 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number . • 1472139 Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Situational Awareness
Events Anomaly.Ground Excursion : Taxiway Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Object Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Loss Of Aircraft Control Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : Taxi Result.Flight Crew : Regained Aircraft Control Result.FIight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.Aircraft : Aircraft Damaged Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Airport Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Airport Narrative: 1 The incident occurred while taxiing from transient parking to runway XYR for takeoff. I was taxiing from the transient parking on a taxiway to runway XYR. The incident occurred at [a taxiway] intersection. Taxiway lighting on the segment from transient parking to [the next taxiway] was non-existent, and the single landing light on the aircraft (it has two landing lights and one taxi light, one landing and one taxi light were/are inoperative) was misaligned way to the left of the path of travel and not very bright. Without sufficient lighting, I tried following [another aircraft] on [the] taxiway and had my passenger shine his small flashlight out his window to help with the lighting. I also tried to use the geo- synchronizing feature of my ForeFlight software on my iPad to follow the short segment on [the] taxiway. Unfortunately, I ran off the left edge of [the] taxiway onto the grass area. I immediately pulled back on the yoke to offload weight from the nose-wheel and applied power to taxi through the grass and onto [the following] taxiway making it safely onto [the] taxiway. I then performed a series of S turns to test the integrity of the nose wheel. I noted no problem with the nose wheel. Further, on takeoff and landing I noted no shimmy, wobble, or other problem with the nose wheel. I [departed] with no further incident - the plane flew as expected, easily staying in trim both vertically and laterally. As for the damage - the trip through the grass kicked up grass into the air filter and onto the nose wheel landing gear strut. And unbeknownst to me even after tie down, apparently the rudder struck either the grass or edge of [the] taxiway as I was pulling back on the yoke and powering out of the grass thus causing a bend and tear on the lower rear portion of the rudder. I believe that there were several contributing factors to the incident: 1) The lack of adequate lighting at ZZZ for the short segment of [the] taxiway; and 2) The owner of the aircraft I rented has deferred the repair/maintenance of the taxi/landing lighting system of the aircraft for almost one year, and in my opinion as well as that of my passenger and the squawk sheets on the aircraft, the taxi/landing lighting system condition is inadequate. Not only was it misaligned, (aiming high and far to the left of the centerline of travel) it was not providing normal amounts of light. While I verified before flight that the airplane had at least one operable landing light, I could not tell in the day light that the lighting was misaligned nor of inadequate illumination. Neither my passenger, a licensed pilot, nor I could see the taxiway due to the lack of adequate taxiway lighting and aircraft lighting. Additionally, there is a significant drop-off from the
taxiway to the adjacent grass area airport. Synopsis - FAR more than I have ever experienced at any other Cessna 172 pilot reported that during taxi the aircraft went off the taxiway damaging the lower part of the rudder.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ2.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 175 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 12000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal Human Factors : Troubleshooting 10 Make Model Name : PA-28 Cherokee/Archer/Dakota/Pillan/Warrior Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Takeoff Flight Phase : Initial Climb Flight Phase : Taxi Route In Use : VFR Route Airspace.CIass G : ZZZ Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Private Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 1594 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 5 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 1594 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number . • 1471858 Training / Qualification Human Factors : : Workload Human Factors Human Factors : Distraction Events
Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Ground Personnel Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.General : Maintenance Action Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.FIight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Result.Aircraft : Aircraft Damaged Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 I picked up the aircraft from [a service center] located at ZZZ. I performed a thorough preflight and departed ZZZ to the SW headed for ZZZI. The flight was approximately 1 hour with maneuvering and operated flawlessly with no issues. Approximately 1 hour later I departed ZZZ headed for ZZZ2. This flight was approximately 2 hours and as well was flawless with absolutely no issues. I fueled at ZZZ2 self-serve Avgas pump with about 21 gallons. After performing a pre-flight inspection I departed back to ZZZ. Upon departure I began a gradual climb at about 250 FPM on a runway heading. At about 3100 feet MSL the engine went to what I perceived as idle or about 1000 RPMs. I ran through the emergency checklist and hit nearest suitable airport on the GPS which said ZZZ2 behind me. I began a gradual left turn to head back to the airport while trouble shooting the engine issue and establishing the best glide speed of 76 knots airspeed. When I looked at the distance to ZZZ2 it was 5.9 NM and I knew I could not make it with the altitude I had. I looked for a suitable landing location and choose a field to my right that I felt was my only option. Once I felt I had made the field I put in all the flaps and performed a successful no power landing. I then inspected the plane for any damage and began to look for the source of the problem, I manually checked the fuel in both tanks and at the engine drain and it appeared to be clean 100 Octane Low Level with no deficiencies. I then removed the cover and started the engine while holding the brakes and slowly pushed up the throttle at about 2000 RPM the engine acted as if it was not getting fuel and began to lose RPM almost immediately. After calling [the service center] I found a ride home and drove back. I flew back to ZZZ2 with [someone from the service center] and we got a ride to the field where the plane was located. We pulled the upper and lower engine covers and inspected the engine top to bottom. After determining everything was as it should be we started the engine and as I increased the throttle the engine began to die as if starving for fuel within a minute or so. We then shut it down and inspected the engine again and noticed that it had a fuel leak on the primer line that runs to 3 of the 4 cylinders. After closer inspection, we determined the line was broken near a clamp so we repaired it with a ferrules fitting. We then started the engine and ran it up to full rpm it maintained 2350 rpm for about 12 minutes with no issues. We then replaced all the engine covers and began to discuss options. We did some calculations and determined the field was more than 3000 feet long smooth low-cut grass. We discussed that we could taxi the aircraft to the high end of the field and set it up in a takeoff configuration and increase the throttle to full as if to take off but remain on the ground, to further test the engine.
I taxied to the starting point and put in I notch of flaps then increased the throttle to full. When the aircraft wheels departed the ground, the speed increased very quickly and before I could set it back down I realized I may not have enough room to stop. The aircraft lifted off the ground and at approximately 150-175 feet AGL the engine appeared to stop or at least went to idle. I had no options for a straight ahead landing so I made a somewhat hard left turn and attempted to keep the aircraft from stalling. I cleared several obstacles and an electric pole/line. In an effort to avert the stall I pushed the nose down and impacted the ground with the front nose wheel and the aircraft slid to a stop. When I began to review my documents for the insurance claim I realized that I had inadvertently allowed my Biennial Flight Review to expire. To avoid a situation like this in the future I would never operate an aircraft that had a problem that could not be definitively identified and corrected by a person with the appropriate credentials and I will also employ the use of additional devices (such as electronic reminder) and monitor my credentials more closely. Synopsis PA28 pilot reported engine malfunction that resulted in an emergency landing. Following corrective maintenance and subsequent testing, a second takeoff was attempted with an additional emergency landing.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Relative Position. Distance. Nautical Miles : 2 Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 400 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility : Haze / Smoke Weather Elements / Visibility.VisibiIity : 4 Light : Daylight Ceiling.Single Value : 12000 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Helicopter Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Training Flight Phase : Final Approach Route In Use : Direct Airspace.CIass G : ZZZ Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Make Model Name : Small Aircraft Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Phase : Initial Climb Flight Phase : Takeoff Airspace.CIass G : ZZZ Aircraft : 3 Reference : Z ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Make Model Name : Small Aircraft Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Phase : Initial Approach Airspace.CIass G : ZZZ Person
Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Function.Flight Crew : Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 645 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 80 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 645 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1471845 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Time Pressure Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Confusion Communication Breakdown.Party1 Communication Breakdown. Party2 Events Anomaly.Conflict : NMAC Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.HorizontaI : 400 Miss Distance.VerticaI : 200 When Detected : In-flight : Flight Crew : Flight Crew Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 On a practice approach for the RNAV into ZZZ, a pilot in Aircraft Y made a radio call he was holding at Runway XY and said please advise if there is traffic in the area. Aircraft Z on an 8 mile final for [Runway] XX, also on the practice approach, made immediately a position report and we did ours right after. We reported a one mile final for Runway XX. My Student was flying under a view limiting device and had no visual reference outside. Visibility was 4 miles, haze and smoke so it was hard to see where that airplane was. When I was scanning for that traffic, he appeared right in front of me, airborne, almost same altitude heading straight toward us. I took the controls of the helicopter immediately and did a steep right turn to avoid a midair collision. I made a radio call and said we all would appreciate if he would make a radio call prior to take Off. The pilot in Aircraft Y said he wasn't aware of us and said we never did a radio call. However I talked with the pilot in Aircraft Z behind us and he confirmed our radio calls and knew exactly where we were. Synopsis Helicopter instructor pilot reported a Near Mid-Air Collision in the traffic pattern due to an aircraft departing in the opposite direction.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : 50F.Airport State Reference : TX Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Dusk Ceiling : CLR Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : 50F Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Cessna 140 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Landing Route In Use : Visual Approach Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.CTAF : 50F Aircraft Operator : Personal 10 Make Model Name : Cardinal 177/177RG Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Landing Route In Use : Visual Approach Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification. Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 3500
Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 15 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 27 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1471547 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly Conflict : Ground Conflict, Critical Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.HorizontaI : 10 Miss Distance.VerticaI : O When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I performed a radio check with another aircraft on the ground as I was taxiing to takeoff at Bourland Field (50F). Both of us were loud and clear on 123.0. About 30 minutes prior to this I had observed an aircraft taking off to the north (Rwy 35), but since winds were light from the southeast, both of us on the ground taxied to Rwy 17 for departure. The other aircraft departed first and turned left to downwind for a touch-and-go. I departed next, also turning left to downwind. We both continuously called pattern position in the traffic pattern. The aircraft ahead of me performed a touch-and-go, and since I planned a full- stop, I offered to turn off at mid-field. The other pilot said to go ahead and back-taxi and he would just extend. The other pilot was on crosswind as I turned base. I was a bit high and fast so I concentrated on losing altitude and speed with a sideslip. I touched down just a bit long but on speed. At that moment I noticed an aircraft at the other end of the runway. He was not displaying a landing light (I was). I realized he had just touched down and that we were on a collision course. I considered leaving the runway surface to the right, but there were taxiway lights at midfield and I was concerned about colliding with one. So I got as far right on the runway as I could and depended on the other pilot to do the same. There was insufficient room for me to come to a complete stop short of the midfield taxiway. We passed near midfield with wing clearance fortunately, and I was doing 30-40 mph. I was also calling out on the radio to the other pilot in the pattern that we had an aircraft landing opposite direction so he would not turn final. Afterward I taxied back, and finally the Cardinal came up on frequency 123.0 and called out that he was back-taxiing on 35. I advised him that 17 was the active. The only other communication from the Cardinal was when he exited the runway at the south end. My daughter was also monitoring 123.0 and verified that the Cardinal never made any transmissions on frequency prior to landing. The other pilot in the pattern verified this as well when he and I talked at the gas pump after flight. Synopsis C140 pilot reported a ground conflict occurred afterlanding when another light aircraft touched down on the opposite direction runway. The aircraft passed each other midfield.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 3000 Environment Weather Elements / Visibility.VisibiIity : Light : Daylight Ceiling.Single Value : 12000 RVR.Single Value : 10 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.UNICOM : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal 10 Make Model Name : PA-28 Cherokee/Archer/Dakota/Pillan/Warrior Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Visual Approach Component Aircraft Component : Reciprocating Engine Assembly Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Failed Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Private ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1471152 Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Diverted
Result.Flight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Result.FIight Crew : Inflight Shutdown Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 I did a pre-trip inspection on the aircraft and noticed that it was a quart of Oil low so I added a quart. I got in the plane and continued to go through the checklist as always to insure a safe flight. I listened to the unicom and decided to leave. I announced to local traffic that I was taxiing and got to where I completed a run up of the aircraft and the results were good so I decided to take off. I flew around the pattern once and landed to relax me a little due to the fact that it had been a week since I had flown. Everything felt great and it was a beautiful day so I decided to fly out towards my house. Once I got to about 1700 ft I departed the pattern to 3000 ft to the Southwest. Upon reaching my desired altitude I did my cruise checklist and was satisfied and entered into Slow Flight in ordered to practice this maneuver. Once I got down to the minimum speed that I felt comfortable I noticed a noise in the motor. I wasn't sure what it was coming from at first but the more that I listened the more I felt like that was where it was coming from. I departed from slow flight while looking at my instruments. I then noticed that the oil pressure had dropped and I decided to abort and try to return to the airport for safety reasons. I was taught that even if you oil pressure drops that it doesn't always mean no Oil that it could be a faulty gauge so I watched the oil temp gauge and the temp was at 180 so I turned the airplane around and felt like I was about 8 miles or so away and I decided to get as high as I could. The knocking got louder so I slowed the power down to 2000 rpm. I realized that I was too far away from the airport and the knocking got louder on a lower setting and I realized that if I was going to make it that I needed to be closer. I added full power and picked up speed but realized that even at full power that it wasn't producing full RPM's. About 30 seconds later the plane started to shake and I heard a loud pop and the engine stopped. Smoke had started coming out of the cowing but stopped quickly. I looked on my checklist to see about the emergency procedures to make sure that I didn't forget anything. I unlocked my door and opened my window. Once I realized that I was not going to make the airport I looked around for the best place to land. There was a field to my left but it required a sharp bank to make it and I was worried about that with no power. Ahead of me to the right was a highway. Once I saw that I was going to have to land on the highway I radioed in to 121.5. I tried to explain to them where I thought that I was but I was getting too close to the ground. As I lined up with the road I accessed the traffic and made a decision where to land. Once I touched down I had to coast to where I could be in a safe location out of the way of everything. When I came to a complete stop I radioed back to 121.5 to let them know that I had made it safely and that there was no damage to me, the plane or anyone or anything else. I didn't get a response back so I called my CFI at the airport and told him where I was in order for him to come get me. When he got there he informed me to contact the weather briefer and let him know that everything was 0k. Synopsis PA-28 pilot reported landing on a rural highway after experiencing an engine failure.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ANE.Airport State Reference : MN Relative Position. Distance. Nautical Miles : 10 Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 3300 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : 10 Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : 25D Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : PA-28 Cherokee/Archer/Dakota/Pillan/Warrior Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Direct Airspace.CIass E : M98 Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Make Model Name : Cessna Aircraft Undifferentiated or Other Model Airspace.CIass E : M98 Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Private Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 250 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 15 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 250 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1470131 Events
Anomaly Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly Conflict : NMAC Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.HorizontaI : O Miss Distance.VerticaI : 200 When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 We were about 10 mile NE of ANE under the Mode C for MSP and on the CTAF for 25D monitoring for parachute activity in the area. I was cruising at 3300 feet MSL at a heading of 160. I'm not sure how I missed the other traffic. The Cessna was on an approximate heading of 270 at 3500 MSL. I do have ADS-B in and out with traffic showing on an iPad, and the Garmin 650 in the panel. The other aircraft did not show up at all nor did a collision avoidance activate. I took evasive action by descending quickly to 3000 feet. I'm not sure if the other pilot was aware I was there or not. I'm also not sure why the other pilot wasn't flying at 2500 or 4500 feet MSL on their westerly course. Synopsis PA-28 pilot reported observing conflicting traffic and executed rapid evasive maneuver to avoid a midair collision that was not displayed on T IS.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : MGJ. Airport State Reference : NY Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 1000 Environment Weather Elements / Visibility.VisibiIity : Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : MGJ Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Cessna 150 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Landing Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.CIass E : MG] Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine 15 Qualification. Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 4000 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 25 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 800 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1470114 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown. Party2 : Other Events Anomaly Conflict : NMAC Anomaly.Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Other / Unknown Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.VerticaI : 50
When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 During an approach for runway 03 1 entered a left downwind via a 45 degree entry. I determined the runway in use Vla ASOS and other aircraft in the pattern. Just after making the self-announce transmission on CTAF, my passenger and I both observed a Beech Bonanza opposite direction and descending to pattern altitude, approaching head on. I applied strong forward pressure on the yoke to effect a rapid and immediate descent. We passed under the other aircraft by approximately 50 feet. No other transmissions were heard from the incident aircraft, however two other aircraft on the frequency in the same pattern did answer. As I observed the Bonanza begin a wide, climbing turn to enter the pattern behind us, and still heard no transmissions, I announced their positon for the other aircraft. As I was taxiing to the ramp, I made my last transmission for the other aircraft as I observed them touching down. They finally made a transmission stating, "We are on the frequency, what is the problem?" I did not reply. My guess, is that the CTAF frequency is one that is not common (122.72), and may have not been known by the other aircraft. The other aircraft descending into the pattern did not make for scanning for traffic easy. It was pure luck that we missed one another. Synopsis A C150 pilot reported taking evasive action to prevent airborne conflict with a no radios aircraft entering approach pattern to an uncontrolled airport.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 6500 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : DA20-C1 Eclipse Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Training Flight Phase : Landing Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.FIight Crew : Student Experience.Flight Crew. Total : 26 10 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 26 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 26 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1469546 Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person : Gate / Ramp / Line Reporter Organization : FBO Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 747 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 200 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 180 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1469555
Events Anomaly.Ground Excursion : Runway Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Loss Of Aircraft Control Detector. Person : Observer Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I was flying my first solo. I took off and began my pattern (crosswind, downwind, base and final). I approached my final leg at 60 K TS with full flaps. I landed before the first large white blocks on the runway on the center line. I landed on the main gear, then lowered the nose. It shook (nose wheel) so I pulled up slightly, then pushed the stick forward so shaking stopped. The plane veered to the left. I failed to pull the throttle to idle- it was slightly above idle on landing. I attempted to slow the plane with the brakes but I believe my feet were on the rudder and not high enough on the pedal to hit the brakes. I left the runway into a flat, level grassy area and was headed toward the ramp. focused on steering the plane toward the ramp and let friction slow the plane at that point. The propeller was cutting some of the higher grass along the way. I then entered the paved ramp area and shut down the plane. I walked the entire route where the plane went through the grass. There were no hard surfaces that I drove through. Most of the grass was ankle high and some patches of grass were about a foot high. I inspected the plane after I shut it off. There was visible green marks on the propeller and some of the leading edge appeared to separate from the propeller. I had no injuries and there were no injuries to others and no damage to any property. Narrative: 2 I am a CFII. I sent my student on his first solo flight. Our Part 141 syllabus requires the student to complete one half hour in the local traffic pattern solo. [We] had completed the required training for the solo and he had received all endorsements, training, and pre solo written exam. Prior to this day we had flown three days in a row that were supervised solo's with instruction given on the ground upon our return. The student was eager and ready to make the flight, and I had not been given any reason to doubt the safe completion of the flight. Conditions for the day were clear skies 10 miles visibility and winds from the south west at 5 knots. The winds were favoring Runway XX, therefor it was in use. [The student] was instructed to do 3 full stop landings and was taxiing out to Runway XX for departure after dropping me off at the FBO to monitor from the ground. The student had a great takeoff with excellent directional control. The climb out and pattern flown was to standards and the communications were exceptional. The approach to landing was just as we had practiced. During his roll out to a stop [the student] took a sudden sharp turn to the left and ran off the runway into the grass. There was no obstruction or gusts to explain the reaction. [The student] rolled through the grass in the runway safety area and up onto the taxi way coming to a complete stop. After assuring the student was 0k I asked what had caused him to make such a rash control input, the student replied that he wasn't exactly sure what had happened. My best guess is the student freaked out and had an involuntary response which he couldn't recover from. The aircraft suffered a prop strike from the grass which he rolled through as well as a nose wheel getting bent slightly.
Synopsis DA20 student pilot and the observing CFI reported that upon landing during a solo flight the aircraft turned sharply and departed the runway.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : PWT.Airport State Reference : WA Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 500 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 20000 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : PWT Aircraft Operator : Personal 10 Make Model Name : Small Aircraft, High Wing, 1 Eng, Retractable Gear Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Training Flight Phase : Takeoff Airspace.Class E : PWT Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.CTAF : PWT Make Model Name : Small Aircraft, Low Wing, I Eng, Fixed Gear Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Flight Phase : Landing Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.CIass E : PWT Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Engineer Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1469242 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown
Communication Breakdown.PartyI Communication Breakdown. Party2 Events : Flight Crew : Flight Crew Anomaly.Conflict : Airborne Conflict Detector. Person : Observer Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.Horizontal : 200 When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 While practicing touch and go landings, another pilot flying Aircraft Y announced his intention to enter on a 45 degree entry to runway 20 at PWT. I continued in the pattern announcing my position at all phases of the pattern. While on the downwind I heard [the Aircraft Y pilot] say he was on the 45. I announced turning base and then final. I opted to go around and heard someone warn me about an opposite direction aircraft on final. I continued the go around. I then saw traffic directly opposite to me approaching runway 02. I avoided him while on the upwind at 300 feet AGL. I was on my 3rd circuit with others having been in the pattern. I announced my position and continued the go around avoiding the traffic and clearly continued to announce my position. The pilot executed a low approach to runway 02 and continued to fly northbound not talking on the radio. I continued in the pattern announcing my position at every phase of flight. I tried to talk with the pilot but no answer. Synopsis GA pilot experienced an airborne conflict with another aircraft that had announced entering the pattern for Runway 20, but wound up on approach to Runway 02 in conflict with the reporter. Evasive action was taken by the reporter and the NORDO pilot departed to the south without making radio contact.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 2 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Dusk Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal 10 Make Model Name : Skyhawk 172/CutIass 172 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Training Flight Phase : Landing Route In Use : None Airspace.CIass E : ZZZ Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.Flight Crew : Instructor Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 1450 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 130 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 550 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1469241 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events
Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Object Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Unstabilized Approach Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I was training a student who has approximately 30 hours and who has soloed 3 times. We were doing a training flight in the traffic pattern working on short and soft field takeoffs and landings. For the short field landings, I was giving the scenario that a previous student Of mine had received during his private pilot checkride. Simply enough, the examiner wanted him to land on the threshold. So that is the same scenario that my student and I were practicing. We had performed 9 takeoffs and landings, and he was doing very well with the spot landings and short field procedure. In the beginning I was following very closely on the controls to ensure the proper threshold crossing height for the point which we were landing. As the lesson progressed, I slowed eased off of the controls to allow him to be more in control. After the 9th landing, I knew it was about time to finish up for the evening. My student asked if we could do just one more takeoff and landing, to which I agreed. The sun had set and we were beginning to lose some of our light. The lesson before this was his first night flight where we did 7 full stop takeoff and landings, so I wasn't terribly concerned with a little bit of light loss. While we were on the downwind leg, I told my student that we would try to touchdown at the beginning of the runway, just before the numbers one last time. As we turned onto final, the lighting system was not turned on. I preferred it that way, but failed to vocalize to my student to keep them off. When we approached short final I heard him keying on the lights. Before I could say anything, the lights were coming on. He had turned them on high intensity. As we kept coming down, I began reaching for the hand held mic to turn down the lights. We were low enough, I thought the best decision was for me to try to get them and let him focus on the landing. When I got the mic and got them keyed down, we were probably 20 ft above the ground. I made a quick glance over to his airspeed indicator to verify he was at the proper speed and to put the mic back so my hands were free. When I looked back, we were beginning to cross the threshold and I knew we had gotten a little lower than I would have liked and we then felt the RH (right hand) tire hit the threshold light. It didn't alter the course of the airplane, and we were able to touchdown straight, on the main wheels, and in the center of the runway. We didn't actually realize it was a light until we taxied back to the beginning of the runway to make sure it wasn't a light. Sure enough, there it was. It knocked it off its base and broke the glass. We taxied in and shutdown. We did a visual inspection of the entire aircraft and there was no evidence of any damage. I immediately called the airport foreman to report what had happened so he could get a hold of the proper maintenance technician. Looking back, there are a few things I, as the instructor, could have done differently to prevent this situation. I should have stuck with my instinct that we had done enough takeoffs and landings and that any more could be detrimental to the progress made. Next, I could have made the decision to pick a point further down the runway due to the diminishing sunlight. Third, when my student keyed the lights to high intensity, I should have had him adjust to land farther down the runway due to the effect it was having on
our vision. I have learned a lot from this situation and will never let it happen again. I am trying my hardest to do everything properly to fix the situation. Synopsis C172 flight instructor reported striking a runway threshold light during landing with his student at the controls.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : AMW.Airport State Reference : IA Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 50 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 12000 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : AMW Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Small Aircraft Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Takeoff Route In Use : None Airspace.CIass E : AMW Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Aircraft Operator : Personal 10 Make Model Name : Any Unknown or Unlisted Aircraft Manufacturer Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Takeoff Route In Use : None Airspace.CIass E : AMW Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Private ASRS Report Number.Accesslon Number : 1469199 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Other / Unknown
Communication Breakdown.PartyI Communication Breakdown. Party2 Analyst Callback : Completed Events Anomaly Conflict : NMAC Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.Horizontal : O Miss Distance.VerticaI : 15 : Flight Crew : Flight Crew Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airport Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Winds Light and variable, AMW runway 01 specified for no wind use. After runup, announced on CTAF taking runway [01] for departure. Another person on CTAF said they were lined up on runway 13 [which is closest to the ramp] said they wanted immediate departure. I said I would stay lined up on 01 and they could depart. I watched, lined up on 01, as the plane took off and watched it climb to about 500' and they announced turning crosswind to stay in the pattern. I said, I was rolling on 01. At about 10' AGL someone [unknown] said there are two planes taking off! I started looking toward runway 13/31 and couldn't see, my passenger pointed and the vintage aircraft was rapidly approaching the intersection of 13/31 [on Runway 13] and 01/19 at the same altitude as me. He was less than 100' away horizontally as I immediately pitched down (about 50' AGL at this time) and he flow over the top of me. I had to recover and pitch back up about 10' AGL and continue takeoff as I was hitting 100 kts and was not stabilized nor had enough runway to land on back on 01. I can only assume the pilot was NORDO or just not listening and assumed there was only 1 active runway. I listened and heard no reports on the radio from that plane. Factors in play were the NORDO pilot, or not using CTAF if he was equipped. The fact that some pilots use the closest runway in no-wind conditions when 01 is spelled out as the no- wind desired runway. Also beneficial was the one pilot who saw both planes departing and called out on the radio if this hadn't happened I don't know if I would have avoided the other plane. Also a factor is you can't really see the departure [approach?] end of 13 from 01 and vice-versa. Callback: 1 The reporter confirmed that the vintage aircraft was departing from Runway 13. Synopsis GA pilot departing using CTAF procedures reported a NMAC with a vintage aircraft departing on an adjacent runway without announcing on CTAF.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : SCD.Airport State Reference : AL Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility : Haze / Smoke Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : 10 Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 2700 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : SCD Aircraft Operator : FBO Make Model Name : Small Aircraft, High Wing, 1 Eng, Fixed Gear Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Training Flight Phase : Takeoff Route In Use : Visual Approach Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.CTAF : SCD Aircraft Operator : Corporate Make Model Name : Helicopter Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 137 Flight Plan : None Mission : Agriculture Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.Class G : ZTL Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Function.Flight Crew : Instructor Qualification. Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument
Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 560 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 104 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 520 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1469156 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Time Pressure Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Confusion Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.HorizontaI : 200 Miss Distance.VerticaI : 500 When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.FIight Crew : Became Reoriented Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Chart Or Publication Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 On short final RWY 27 into SCD to perform a touch and go landing for a commercial pilot training flight, I noticed a clear object rise above the tree line just off the far western end of the runway. Moments prior to touchdown I determined the object I saw was a small bubble canopy helicopter. I had my student continue the landing as the helicopter appeared to be heading westbound, away from us. After touchdown, my student reconfigured the aircraft, applied full power, and initiated a takeoff. At rotation, the helicopter turned from the west to the east, and headed straight down the opposite end of the runway towards us. I briefly considered aborting the takeoff, but was worried that a high speed ground collision between our two aircraft might occur. After rotation, I took the flight controls and continued to climb out at the best rate of climb speed, and sidestepped north, away from the helicopter and runway environment. To my knowledge and from what I saw, the helicopter took no evasive action, and I'm not certain if they even made visual contact with us. Our landing light, taxi light, anti-collision lights, and flashing beacon were all on, and we had been making radio calls on CTAF from at least 10 nm from the airport. The helicopter in question was a small agricultural helicopter, and it had not been making radio calls on SCD CT AF 122.8. Upon arrival back to my home airport, I spoke with the assistant chief flight instructor (and Safety Officer) about the event, and also filed a company safety report. I also called SCD to inquire as to the nature of the helicopter operating on the field without making radio calls. They were operating in the area spraying herbicide on power lines, and also on tree tracts and that their helicopters are not
equipped with radios. I believe this event was caused by the pilot of the aforementioned helicopter failing to exercise proper collision avoidance and scanning techniques, and assuming that a normally quiet airport with low amounts of traffic would automatically be free of any landing traffic. The winds at the time of the event were favoring RWY 27. In the future, publishing a NOTAM to alert transient aircraft of this non-routine (to SCD) traffic operating in the area could help aid in situational awareness for other pilots operating in the vicinity of the airport. And although not legally required, it would be beneficial for those helicopters to be equipped with radios, so they can more safely coordinate with traffic, and also build a better situational awareness picture for themselves with regards to other aircraft in the area. Synopsis GA flight instructor reported taking evasive action from a helicopter as his student departed SCD following a touch and go. The helicopter did not have a radio Installed.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Relative Position. Distance. Nautical Miles : 1 Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 1400 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : 30 Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 20000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Baron 58/58TC Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Initial Approach Airspace.Class E : ZZZ Component Aircraft Component : Gear Extend/Retract Mechanism Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Failed Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 791 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 69 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 163 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1468447
Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Smoke / Fire / Fumes / Odor Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result. General : Maintenance Action Result.Flight Crew : Overcame Equipment Problem Result.FIight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 I was approaching ZZZ airport from the west for landing. I had been making radio calls over the CTAF from 15 miles west of the airport all the way into the downwind for runway 30. No other aircraft seemed to be in the vicinity or at least nobody made any radio calls that they were in that vicinity. When I moved the gear selector to the down position I heard the gear move but did not receive three green lights. I confirmed the lights with the light annunciator button and verified the lights were in working condition. I then cycled the gear back up and after a period of waiting put the selector back into the down position. At this time I began to smell a slight burning odor and noticed a small amount of smoke coming from under the pilot/co-pilot seat. I reached over to pull the gear motor circuit breaker, but realized it had already tripped. At this point I called Approach to notify them of my situation and explained to them I just wanted to make contact with them in case I needed some help, but for the time being I would be performing a manual extension. I departed the airport pattern to the north-west and used the auto Pilot in heading and altitude hold modes while I pulled out the POH and referred to the gear manual extension section. I explained to my passenger to help me scan for traffic while I was multi-tasking. Upon execution of the POH instructions I was unsuccessful in producing three green lights. I decided to call [a relative] via cell phone and have him drive to the airport so I could perform a low approach and he could attempt a visual look at the landing gear. Upon his arrival another very experienced commercial pilot who was at the field helped him to look at the landing gear while I flew the low approach. They were both confident all three gears were down and locked. I then decided to attempt and turn the manual extension handle more, but could still not get three green lights. With plenty of time I then did a second low approach to confirm again all three gears looked down and locked. They confirmed once again that the gear looked down and locked. I referred to the POH on a gear-up landing and had the plane configured and/or ready for a possible gear collapse upon landing. I made a normal approach to landing and was very careful to set the plane onto the runway softly. After touch down the airplane reacted normal and we were able to exit the runway without incident. All worked out well in this situation, but we were prepared for the worse. Synopsis BE58 Baron pilot reported a landing gear motor failure and manual extension.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : BFF.Airport State Reference : WY Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Dusk Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : BFF Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 1736 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1468296 Events Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Primary Problem : Company Policy Narrative: 1 Due to weather we diverted to BFF which was the alternate as listed on our flight plan. We had several problems with BFF. We were the 6th aircraft on the ground to divert there at the time. BFF is an uncontrolled airport. This is the biggest problem for aircraft diverting.
The aircraft on approach cannot land until the aircraft on the ground call in. This causes big delays in the air and for diverting aircraft with low fuel that's not good. BFF has no gates. And there was no option to allow passengers to get off the plane for delays. It took 2 hrs to get gas. It could have taken a lot longer. Unicom was the only source of communications. There was only one person answering the radio which was not very often. Very bad communications there. ACARS has no reception at BFF. This adds another layer of problems and delays to get information, get a flight plan, weights, etc. With no ACARS and since no door opened, VNAV did not work properly on descent to ZZZI. And we kept getting error messages while airborne asking us to open a door to reset the system. I do not believe BFF should be used as a regular alternate airport. If anything else this can cause large fines due to ground delays without egress options. When we finally got to destination we arrived at gate and waited 53 minutes with the parking brake set. Here are the times of this flight: ZZZ-BFF OUT XA:OI OFF XA:20 ON XD:41 IN XE:OI (parked at remote spot) FUEL 7300 lbs BFF-ZZZI OUT XG:12 OFF XG:22 ON XH:02 IN Xl:14 FOB 11000 lbs (Estimated) Also, do the math. The passengers were on the plane for well over 7 hrs when we arrived at the gate. They then had to wait another 53 min to get off. I called Operations several times. This is embarrassing. Synopsis Air carrier Captain reported questioning the wisdom of using BFF as an alternate with no tower, no gates, one frequency for CTAF and UNICOM, and no ACARS reception.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : FBO 10 Make Model Name : Skyhawk 172/CutIass 172 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Training Flight Phase : Landing Route In Use : Visual Approach Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : FBO Function.Flight Crew : Instructor Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 1718 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days . 153 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1468195 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.FIight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Other / Unknown Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Ground Strike - Aircraft Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Aircraft : Aircraft Damaged
Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 C172RG nose wheel collapsed during the end of a landing roll out. The student inadvertently reached for the Carb-heat. Instead he grabbed the gear handle. I (CFI) saw the student reaching and tried to intercept/block the action. I was too slow and could not stop my student's hand. The gear handle moved only half-travel before my hand returned the gear lever to "down." The nose wheel gave way despite the squat switch. I am reporting this here because as a CFI I did my best to prevent the mistake but wasn't fast enough. My student was able to move from the throttle to the gear handle faster than I could block it. Synopsis C172RG flight instructor reported the student pilot inadvertently grabbed the gear handle instead of the carb heat and caused the nose gear to collapse on landing.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : CA Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 150 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Skyhawk 172/Cutlass 172 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Training Flight Phase : Takeoff Airspace.CIass G : ZZZ Component Aircraft Component : Cylinder Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Failed Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Instructor Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 630 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 56 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 510 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1468194 Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly.Ground Excursion : Runway Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight
Result.Flight Crew : Diverted Result.FIight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Result.Flight Crew : Overcame Equipment Problem Result.FIight Crew : Returned To Departure Airport Result.FIight Crew : Regained Aircraft Control Result.Aircraft : Aircraft Damaged Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 Landed in a field on airport property as a result of Power loss due to a cracked cylinder I was on a training flight with a Student Pilot getting check ride ready, which was to take part two days later. Before takeoff I did my usual check with the student, oil was at 6qts and fuel was topped off (53 Gal) as a safety precaution. The flight was a typical training flight, took off from [home airport], did some ground reference maneuvers in the area, followed by landings in ZZZ airport, an uncontrolled field. After two landings in the pattern, I told the student to prepare for a short field takeoff and since he was getting ready for check ride everything was by the book, from checklists to airspeed and Oil temperature and pressure call outs. On this one, I said, "ENGINE FAILED", student took appropriate action and stopped the aircraft, pulled throttle and said in real life he would pull the mixture and the appropriate checklist. I was satisfied and we further discussed eventualities if the engine did fail on takeoff roll, below 1000 feet and after that. After this simulated abort takeoff, [we decided to return to home airport]. On this final departure, again everything by the book, proper non-towered radio calls, checklists and use of runway space. On takeoff roll, on the Vx climb, I was satisfied and continued with a clear of obstacle call, the student then pitched for Vy. About 3 seconds after, I heard a BANG! I immediately looked at the tires to see if they popped, the oil pressure and temperature, they were green. Simultaneously the aircraft began to shake and vibrate violently. I looked at the VSI and saw the climb go from +800 FPM down to barely +50 FPM. My student looked at me and said, "I've lost the engine..." , I took over controls and added full power, Idle, then power again. Nothing changed and clearly there was a problem. At this point, I'm still maintaining heading, airspeed began to decrease and I said, "confirm engine loss.... ", student said, "confirm!". I had no choice, I had to put it down. Told the student, "seatbelt on tight, door open now, I have this". Immediately, I knew from experience that I could not land this plane straight given the speed and rate of drop and ground roll. I banked about 15-20 Degrees left and slipped the plane down to the corner of a field and put the plane diagonally off the runway numbers, an approximate 305 heading. On touchdown, I had flaps full and hit the ground right as the stall horn went off, touchdown was rough but I held the back pressure in and did a basic soft field landing. Since I had never done a real grass landing before I did not apply brakes and knew the plane will stop eventually.
When the plane came to a full stop, I told the student, "after landing checklist now!" He ran it pulled full emergency cutoff, fuel selected off and ran the checklist. I had my left hand on the fire extinguisher and my right hand had the checklist in hand ready for a fire, explosion, oil spewing, whatever come may. To our luck, nothing came after, so when we got out, I said "fuel check", we had 42Gal total and Oil was still around 6quarts. Post incident: On my inspection, no oil leaked, no sign of outside damage. I called the owner/flight school and did a post check of the exterior, no damage to the propeller, wheel pants, tires, or fuselage. Luckily we found a crack in cylinder #4 next to the spark plug which caused the Partial Power Loss and vibration issue with the aircraft. 65 feet remained between the aircraft and a fence, luckily an airport tenant saw and heard the incident so he immediately sprang in to help and get a tow to get our plane out. Since my student and I were in the check ride prep mode, I believe that this led to the great outcome of our flight. The issue could not be prevented since it was a maintenance problem, so my job as an instructor was done and had I made any calls differently, surely the result would have been bad. My student remained calm and collected and I think I acted appropriately given the situation I had. I know this is not standard, but I do train my SEL students for private at a higher standard and although not a required procedure except for MEL, I train my students to react if an engine loss occurs 800 feet to return to the field in the opposite direction. My student said that me practicing this with him helped in alleviating the fear if the plane lost power and said attributed to the issue. Synopsis A Cessna 172 instructor pilot reported the engine failed right after takeoff.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : FOD.Airport State Reference : IA Relative Position.Angle.Radial : 010 Relative Position. Distance. Nautical Miles : 2 Altitude.MSL.SingIe Value : 800 Environment Flight Conditions : IMC Weather Elements / Visibility : Cloudy Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : 10 Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 800 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : FOD Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Small Aircraft, High Wing, I Eng, Fixed Gear Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Descent Route In Use : Direct Airspace.CIass E : FOD Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Other / Unknown Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 800 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 20 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 40 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1468179 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown. Partyl : Other Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew
Events Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Passenger When Detected : In-flight Result. Flight Crew : Landed As Precaution Result.Flight Crew : Became Reoriented Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Flying as an "extra set of eyes" for a pilot friend while enroute to Oshkosh, we inadvertently flew into a class E surface airport with weather below VFR minimums. When approximately 10-15 miles west of FOD, we picked up the AWOS weather and observed the field was barely above VFR minimums: 1000 ft Broken, 10 SM visibility. I pointed out to the pilot that there was an airport 10 miles northwest of our position that was reporting VFR, in case FOD went below minimums. The pilot elected to continue to FOD to take a look. After descending, we picked up the AWOS again and observed the clouds were now at 800 ft broken. Already being below the clouds and 2 miles from the airport, the pilot elected to continue and land at FOD. Looking back, this was probably the safer option at that point, already being under the cloud deck, but we never should have gotten to that in the first place. The landing was uneventful and we waited on the ground until the weather raised back to VFR minimums, and departed for the rest of our trip. Lessons learned: I should have been more forceful with the pilot on the suggestion of going to the alternate airport that was VFR. The pilot may not have understood that FOD was class E and the weather minimums associated with class E. It was ignorant to proceed into deteriorating weather, when a viable alternate was so close. Synopsis A flight instructor observer pilot reported not being assertive enough and allowed the pilot, who was presumably operating under VFR, to proceed to and land at an airport that was below VMC.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : OKB.Airport State Reference : CA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 1200 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC/ Advisory.CTAF : OKB Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Small Aircraft Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Initial Climb Airspace.Class G : SCT Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.CTAF : OKB Make Model Name : Small Aircraft Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Phase : Initial Climb Flight Phase : Initial Approach Airspace.CIass G : SCT Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 900 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 8
Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 47 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1467196 Events Anomaly.Conflict : NMAC Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.Horizontal : 375 Miss Distance.VerticaI : 150 When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 This was the return leg of a personal pleasure flight to Oceanside, CA (OKB). I was the PIC pilot flying for the first leg and had swapped seats and was not flying on the return flight. Not being PIC for this leg, and despite being the more experienced aviator, I was relaxing and mentally disengaged with more of a passenger mindset, given I was with a properly rated, current and qualified pilot in the left seat of a single-pilot aircraft. We briefed the takeoff procedures after the run-up, and the PIC had verbally noted the "fly friendly" noise abatement sign at the departure end of the runway, and I reiterated the sign text: follow the river to the shoreline. A C172 departed in front of us for closed traffic, and when the PIC began taxiing towards the runway immediately after they began takeoff roll, I recommended we hold for separation given our dissimilar aircraft. After the 172 had gotten airborne, we taxiied onto Runway 24 and departed. This was sooner than I personally would have departed, but I did not verbalize this and felt it would be a non- issue since they were remaining in the pattern and we were a west departure. In the moments after takeoff leading up to the event, I was enjoying the view out my side of the aircraft while casually glancing over to keep an eye on the traffic that departed in front Of us. I noticed our courses diverging and made a call-out that the traffic was now at 11 o'clock, which was acknowledged. There was a scattered layer above us, which momentarily caused a level off. On my next glance I noticed the 172 had turned northbound and our courses were nearly perpendicular and we were co-altitude, so I again called out that the 172 was 11 0'clock, northbound, same altitude, which was again acknowledged, but no action was taken. As we continued westbound I saw the situation developing, and I issued another verbal warning to the PIC, which was acknowledged, but again no corrective action was taken and the aircraft continued to converge. I immediately looked inside and saw the PIC with his head down at the iPad and at that point I assumed the controls and initiated a pitch up and climbed the aircraft through a break in the clouds. Aircraft 2 passed below and behind at an estimated range of 400 feet diagonally. While I do not believe the situation was unsafe, the separation was not comfortable nor expected by either aircraft. I should have taken action sooner, and believe I would have had I been participating in the flight more actively. It is worth noting that I often fly into [an airport with parallel runways], so I am frequently exposed to aircraft being closer than normal during arrival and departure, which may bias my opinion of whether or not a collision hazard existed. In those situations, however, the aircraft are typically on parallel or divergent courses, which was not the case here, and had I not taken action, a collision hazard would have certainly existed regardless of any subjectivity.
As with most abnormal events in aviation, there were numerous links in the chain of events, and there were missed opportunities to break that chain sooner. This was a case involving both poor communication and poor CRM. During the debrief of the event, the PIC stated he was just flying straight out to the shoreline as he was used to when flying out of many southern California airports, and did not notice or follow the river, which turns slightly south, as the 172 did. I wish the PIC would have verbalized to me that he was overwhelmed, confused or unsure of the departure routing, and I would have been able to assume the role of a proactive crew member and help the PIC stay mentally ahead of the aircraft instead of just sight-seeing. If I had better situational awareness of my pilot's workload, I could have stepped in earlier in the flight to assist. While unable to see the river from the right side of the aircraft, I am still guilty of not querying the PIC when I initially noticed our departure courses diverging. We should have been following behind the preceding traffic which would have averted the need for corrective action. Additionally, had I pushed for additional separation between our aircraft on departure that would have given additional time to maneuver behind the preceding 172 when they began the crosswind turn over the shoreline, building additional lateral separation. The PIC, a VFR private pilot, mentioned during the debrief of the event that he was distracted by the clouds. This fixation likely contributed to the PIC'S inaction and loss of situational awareness. The weather was reporting CLR at the field, had it been reporting clouds or had I personally looked at weather and seen the marine layer approaching, I would have filed for an IFR departure, we would have been able to climb above the traffic in front of us, and ATC would've been there acting as a third set of eyes for safe separation. While often mentioned, it is worth reiterating that cockpit technology serves to aid in our situational awareness, and is no substitute for true situational awareness of what's happening both in and out of the cockpit. This should continue to be stressed to pilots in training, and to experienced pilots who use this technology. The FAA is already in the process of realigning training to focus on decision making, task priority, and situational awareness in lieu of purely maneuver-based evaluation. Instructors also need training in these subject areas so students are properly educated. I support this shift and believe it could prevent future occurrences of events such as this. In addition to teaching standard traffic patterns, pilot training also needs to highlight the existence of numerous non- standard procedures that pilots will encounter, particularly at uncontrolled fields, and the importance of proper pre-flight planning to review and understand these procedures prior to stepping into the cockpit. I believe flight planning applications can sometimes be detrimental to the formation of good habits for proper pre-flight planning, because they can tempt pilots into a feeling of security with having all the information available on- demand at your fingertips. Instructors need to stress the importance of thorough pre-flight planning even more so with the advent of this technology. It should be general good practice that whenever occupying a crewmember seat that a rated pilot always stay engaged in the flight's progression and be ready to offer assistance regardless of who is pilot in command. I had made the trip to relax and get away for an afternoon, and my decision to disengage from the planning and execution Of the return flight proved detrimental, and was a missed opportunity to act as a mentor to a fellow aviator. Synopsis General aviation flight instructor reported a near mid air collision after departure from a CTAF airport.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : HIO.Tower State Reference : OR Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 1600 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : HIO Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Medium Transport, Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Final Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.CIass D : HIO Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.CTAF : 7S3 Aircraft Operator : Personal 10 Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Make Model Name : Small Aircraft, Low Wing, 1 Eng, Retractable Gear Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Personal Nav In Use : GPS Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : None Airspace.CIass D : HIO Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.FaciIity : HIO.Tower Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Local Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (mon) : ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1466538 10
Human Factors Human Factors Human Factors Person : 2 Reference : 2 : Human-Machine Interface : Situational Awareness : Distraction Location Of Person.Aircraft : Y Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Private Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 1200 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 45 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 445 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1467150 Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Time Pressure Human Factors : Confusion Events Anomaly Airspace Violation : All Types Anomaly.Conflict : NMAC Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 I was working Local I. There were two GA aircraft on final for Runway 31L that were cleared to land. I had one GA aircraft extended on right downwind to follow the two aircraft on final, but then I received an inbound point-out from P80, the overlying TRACON, on Aircraft X from the southeast. I asked P80 to slow Aircraft X and direct him to fly over the fix INTLL. I told the GA aircraft extended in the right downwind that I was unable to accommodate his full stop on Runway 31L because of the faster Aircraft X traffic. I instructed the GA aircraft to extend right downwind and contact the Local 2 controller on 132.8 for a full stop landing on Runway 31R. Aircraft X checked on frequency and I cleared him to land number two behind the GA aircraft on short final. Additionally, I told Aircraft X that there would be traffic ahead and to his right on extended final for the north parallel. When Aircraft X was on about a five mile final, I observed an aircraft on what appeared to be a right base about four miles from the airport. I told Aircraft X to stop his descent and that it appeared that the aircraft for the north runway was overshooting final underneath Aircraft X at 1000 MSL. At that point Aircraft X indicated 1600 MSL. Aircraft X said that he saw the aircraft and was responding to a TCAS RA, but it didn't look like one of the high wing GA aircraft. Local 2 immediately advised that that was not his aircraft, and we determined that the southwest-bound aircraft was an airspace violator. I passed this information along to Aircraft X and asked if he would like to continue the approach. Aircraft X said he could, and I cleared him to land again on Runway 31L. I did not observe
Aircraft X take any evasive maneuver to avoid the aircraft. I had both aircraft in sight the entire time, and Aircraft X appeared to cross over the violator between 400-600 feet. After Aircraft X landed the pilot called the tower and advised that the violator in question, Aircraft Y, landed at 7S3 shortly after. The pilot of Aircraft X also advised that they were reporting this incident as a near mid-air collision. On the FALCON replay, Aircraft Y could be seen violating the airspace from the northeast and then exiting the Delta airspace and skirt the edge of the airspace south bound. Aircraft Y re-entered the airspace from the southeast and made a turn southwest bound. This put him directly under final at about 1000 MSC. Had I noticed this violator earlier, I could have prepped Aircraft X sooner. But I am confident that my timely actions to stop Aircraft X's descent prevented this from becoming a collision. Narrative: 2 After departing [north of SPB] to 7S3 and just setting cruise after climb out I realized that I was very close to HIO Class D. I immediately turned east toward PDX and flew between their airspace until clear to the south of HIO. I then continued on to 7S3 and landed there for fuel. After fueling I was told that I had entered the Class D airspace and that I would be hearing from ATC. I was not given a number to call, but was told that since I had installed ADSB they already had my information. I believe that a contributing factor was that in approaching from the north the Class D line is missing or obscured due to all of the printing. As soon as I realized how close I was I watched for other aircraft and diverted to an area I knew to be outside. Another factor was my inexperience with the area and the short duration of the flight. Had I prepared more I might have had their frequency dialed in but I had just set the radio to 7S3 frequency and changing to HIO freq. would have required more time than simply exiting. Synopsis HIO Tower Controller and pilot reported of a Class Delta airspace violation and a NMAC.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : HCF.TRACON State Reference : HI Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 4800 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility : Cloudy Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : 10 Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 4800 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : HCF Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Small Transport Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : IFR Flight Phase : Initial Approach Airspace.Class E : HCF Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.CTAF : JHM Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Small Transport Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : VFR Flight Phase : Climb Route In Use : None Airspace.Class E : HCF Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Facility : HCF.TRACON Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Approach Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1466524 Human Factors : Time Pressure Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events : 2.75
Anomaly Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Returned To Clearance Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Aircraft X was on the instrument approach into JHM. The Aircraft before him reported BKN048 10 NW of the airport. Aircraft X was 15 NW of JHM descending when a VFR aircraft on a 1200 squawk departed JHM head on. I issued traffic advisories to Aircraft X but had no idea who the other aircraft was. Traffic advisories became traffic alerts 5 miles between the two aircraft at 4800 (same AL T). Then at two miles at 4800 the Captain says "I'm going right". A right turn would have put the Aircraft X even closer and the targets would have merged. I told the Aircraft X to make a left 360 before proceeding back on course, they were below the MVA at the time but over water. I noticed Aircraft X had climbed to 5000 and asked if they had an RA. The pilot replied in the affirmative and I reported it to my Supervisor. Later we found out the other aircraft was Aircraft Y when they requested flight following from the adjacent sector. Recommendations: I. Request flight following in and out of JHM. 2. JHM issues a VFR code on the ground and has them contact HCF on departure. 3. Development of a VFR procedure where aircraft remain clear of the final approach course. Synopsis HCF Controller reported an airborne conflict between an IFR departure and a VFR aircraft.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 5 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Amateur/Home Built/Experimental Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Final Approach Route In Use : VFR Route Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Make Model Name : PC-12 Crew Size.Number Of Crew Flight Phase : Takeoff Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 2000 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 9 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 1200 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1466511 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events
Anomaly Conflict : NMAC Anomaly Conflict : Ground Conflict, Critical Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.HorizontaI : 100 Miss Distance.VerticaI : 20 When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.FIight Crew : Executed Go Around / Missed Approach Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 We were over the threshold doing 95 knots when a Pilatus began to take the active runway. My lovely passenger and I reported that we were on a very short final!! The pilot then shot on the runway and said: "Go around!" We thought we were goners!! I nearly dug in a wing tip missing the Pilatus by only a few feet and passed by him and flew alongside the plane during its takeoff roll. Synopsis Glasair pilot reported that during final approach prior to touchdown, a Pilatus took the active runway.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 10000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal 10 Make Model Name : Amateur/Home Built/Experimental Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Landing Route In Use : None Component Aircraft Component : Nose Gear Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Failed Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 20000 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 100 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 200 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1466499 Human Factors : Training / Qualification
Events Anomaly.Ground Excursion : Runway Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Loss Of Aircraft Control Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Aircraft : Aircraft Damaged Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 On roll out after a series of landings, Pilot's foot slipped off the rudder/brake and aircraft veered onto the shoulder and the nose gear collapsed. Synopsis Experimental aircraft pilot reported that his foot slipped off the rudder pedal on landing resulting in a runway excursion.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : JYO.Airport State Reference : VA Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 5000 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : JYO Aircraft Operator : Personal 10 Make Model Name : PA-34-200T Turbo Seneca 11 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Takeoff Route In Use : Vectors Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.CTAF : JYO Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Cirrus Aircraft Undifferentiated Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Final Approach Airspace. Class G : PCT Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 4000
Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 25 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 1200 ASRS Report Number.Accesslon Number : 1466180 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly Conflict : Ground Conflict, Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Runway Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.HorizontaI : 3000 Miss Distance.Vertical : O When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.Flight Crew : Rejected Takeoff Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Departing JYO. Part time Tower closes in the afternoon. Called Ground for clearance. Was informed Tower was closing, Runway 35 was in use and to get clearance from Potomac Approach. Announced taxi to Runway 35 on Unicom and taxied to run-up area. Switched frequencies and got IFR clearance. Was told there was inbound IFR traffic and that we were cleared to go as soon as they arrived. Traffic was on base for 35. They landed and we announced our departure for 35 on Unicom and taxied out. As landing traffic cleared runway we started our takeoff roll. As we rolled I spotted landing lights on short final for Runway 17. I aborted takeoff and stopped the plane well to the side of the runway. The approaching airplane, a Cirrus, landed and taxied Off the runway. We then departed on Runway 35. I do not believe the Cirrus ever saw us. We did not hear him call position or intentions on Unicom. The wind favored Runway 35 and that was the direction all traffic had been landing according to the Tower before it closed. The runway is long and neither airplane was in jeopardy as the Cirrus stopped in a short distance and exited the runway. But had I not seen them in the distance it could have been much closer. Synopsis PA34 pilot reported rejecting takeoff after observing unannounced traffic on short final landing on the opposite direction runway.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : JNX.Airport State Reference : NC Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 800 Environment Flight Conditions : Marginal Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 2000 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : JNX 10 Make Model Name : Cessna Single Piston Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Nav In Use : GPS Flight Phase : Final Approach Route In Use.Other Airspace.CIass E : RDU Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.CTAF : JNX Make Model Name : Cessna Aircraft Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Airspace.CIass E : RDU Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : FBO Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Qualification. Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 791 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days . 150 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 85
ASRS Report Number Accession Number : Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Conflict : NMAC Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.Horizontal : 500 Miss Distance.Vertical : 100 When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments 1466178 Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 At the time of the incident I had been cleared for the RNAV 21 approach. I entered VMC after passing the IAF and contacted Raleigh approach to cancel my IFR flight plan. Raleigh confirmed my cancellation and approved me to change to the CT AF frequency. Ceiling was around 2,500 feet MSC. I announced on the CTAF frequency that I was 8 miles out on the GPS approach for Runway 21 at JNX. I made an announcement that I was 5 miles out on the GPS approach for Runway 21 at JNX. At this time another pilot made announcement that he was overflying the tank farm 4 miles away and would be passing the approach end of Runway 21. I made an announcement that I was 3 miles out on the GPS approach for Runway 21 at JNX. The other pilot announced that he had me in sight and would maintain visual separation. I had just passed CUMUT. It was after this when I saw a Cessna disappear underneath my nose. I immediately executed a steep climbing turn to the left to avoid the airplane and announced my intentions on the CTAF. I completed a 360 degree turn and landed on Runway 21 without further incident. Synopsis Cessna pilot reported an NMAC with another light aircraft in the vicinity of JNX airport.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 2000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 3500 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : FBO 10 Make Model Name : Skyhawk 172/Cutlass 172 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Training Flight Phase : Initial Approach Airspace.CIass E : ZZZ Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : FBO Make Model Name : Skyhawk 172/Cutlass 172 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Training Flight Phase : Initial Approach Airspace.CIass E : ZZZ Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : FBO Function.Flight Crew : Instructor Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Experience.Flight Crew. Total : 2115
Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 65 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 850 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1465911 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : Y Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : FBO Function.Flight Crew : Instructor Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 3200 Experience. Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 100 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 3200 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1465931 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly.Conflict : NMAC Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.HorizontaI : 400 Miss Distance.Vertical : 100 When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 While on downwind during a training flight in the traffic pattern during a time of very heavy activity, as I began to turn base there was another aircraft slightly above and behind me. I immediately took evasive action by descending and turning away from the other aircraft. We had both been announcing our positions on CTAF but were not aware of how close we were to each other. Narrative: 2 I was on downwind with a student and we were just about to call our base turn when another airplane called turning base. I started to look for it and had just pushed the push to talk button when I saw it low and to our right, so instead of "where are you" in surprise I said "Oh [expletive]" and then saw that he had seen us too and was starting to dive left so I took the controls from the student and climbed right. There was no further conflict.
Prior to this happening we had approached the airport on the upwind, then crosswind, then downwind. While we were turning crosswind a plane on the runway called their departure so I was looking for them to make sure there was no conflict with them. The other plane in the pattern had made a radio call that he was inbound to the downwind, but due to distraction with the plane on the runway I never heard him say he was entering downwind and I assumed he was far ahead of us. We had made radio calls at each turn. I did not see him on downwind until we were ready to turn base. I do not think entering a pattern from upwind is a good idea, we should only enter to the downwind. Synopsis Two instructor pilots, both flying separate C172 aircraft, reported an NMAC with each other in the pattern.
