ASRS Database Report Set Parachutist / Aircraft Conflicts Report Set Description. Update Number.. Date of Update ........................ Number of Records in Report Set.............. Number ofNew Records in Report Set ...............3 1 Type of Records in Report Set.. ..A sampling of reports involving parachuting activity and conflicts with aircraft. .....33.0 ..Apri1 28, 2018 .........For each update, new records received at ASRS will displace a like number of the oldest records in the Report Set, with the objective of providing the fifty most recent relevant ASRS Database records. Records within this Report Set have been screened to assure then- relevance to the topic.
National Aeronautics and Space Administration Ames Research Center Moffett Field, CA 94035-1000 TH: 262-7 MEMORANDUM FOR: Recipients of Aviation Safety Reporting System Data SUBJECT: Data Derived from ASRS Reports The attached material is furnished pursuant to a request for data from the NASA Aviation Safety Reporting System (ASRS). Recipients of this material are reminded when evaluating these data of the following points. ASRS reports are submitted voluntarily. The existence in the ASRS database of reports concerning a specific topic cannot, therefore, be used to infer the prevalence of that problem within the National Airspace System. Information contained in reports submitted to ASRS may be amplified by further contact with the individual who submitted them, but the information provided by the reporter is not investigated further. Such information represents the perspective of the specific individual who is describing their experience and perception of a safety related event. After preliminary processing, all ASRS reports are de-identified and the identity of the individual who submitted the report is permanently eliminated. All ASRS report processing systems are designed to protect identifying information submitted by reporters; including names, company affiliations, and specific times of incident occurrence. After a report has been de-identified, any verification of information submitted to ASRS would be limited. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration and its ASRS current contractor, Booz Allen Hamilton, specifically disclaim any responsibility for any interpretation which may be made by others of any material or data furnished by NASA in response to queries of the ASRS database and related materials. Linda J. Connell, Director NASA Aviation Safety Reporting System
CAVEAT REGARDING USE OF ASRS DATA Certain caveats apply to the use of ASRS data. All ASRS reports are voluntarily submitted, and thus cannot be considered a measured random sample of the full population of like events. For example, we receive several thousand altitude deviation reports each year. This number may comprise over half of all the altitude deviations that occur, or it may be just a small fraction of total occurrences. Moreover, not all pilots, controllers, mechanics, flight attendants, dispatchers or other participants in the aviation system are equally aware of the ASRS or may be equally willing to report. Thus, the data can reflect reporting biases. These biases, which are not fully known or measurable, may influence ASRS information. A safety problem such as near midair collisions (NMACs) may appear to be more highly concentrated in area "A" than area "B" simply because the airmen who operate in area "A" are more aware of the ASRS program and more inclined to report should an NMAC occur. Any type of subjective, voluntary reporting will have these limitations related to quantitative statistical analysis. One thing that can be Imown from ASRS data is that the number of reports received concerning specific event types represents the lower measure of the true number of such events that are occurring. For example, if ASRS receives 881 reports of track deviations in 2010 (this number is purely hypothetical), then it can be known with some certainty that at least 881 such events have occurred in 2010. With these statistical limitations m mind, we believe that the real power of ASRS data is the qualitative information contained in report narratives. The pilots, controllers, and others who report tell us about aviation safety incidents and situations in detail — explaining what happened, and more importantly, why it happened. Using report narratives effectively requires an extra measure of study, but the knowledge derived is well worth the added effort.
Report Synopses
ACN:1503278 (lof50) Synopsis Luscombe 8 pilot reported entering the crosswind at an uncontrolled airport while another aircraft entered the pattern unannounced for the crossing runway. ACN: 1491197 (20f50) Synopsis Skydiving pilot and TRACON Controller reported an aircraft was permitted to fly through the skydiving operation active jump zone. ACN:1481254 (30f50) Synopsis ZLC Center Supervisor reported a parachute jump aircraft released their jumpers over an airport even though they knew there was an aircraft departing the airport. ACN:1469580 (40f50) Synopsis ZDV Center Controller observed a VFR parachute jump aircraft climb through the altitude of an enroute IFR aircraft that the VFR aircraft had been advised of. ACN: 1409538 (50f50) Synopsis A TRACON Controller reported observing an unidentified VFR aircraft fly through an area of parachute jumping operations. ACN•. 1408358 (60f50) Synopsis ZAB ARTCC FLM reported observing an unidentified VFR aircraft fly through the path of skydivers at 7500 feet. ACN•. 1406892 (70f50) Synopsis A C-208 jump plane pilot reported advising ATC two minutes prior to jumpers exiting and was told of one aircraft headed away from the jump zone. After jumpers departed, the pilot detected an aircraft over the jump zone which ATC had not advised him about. ACN•. 1402384 (80f50) Synopsis
Albuquerque Center Controller reported of parachute operations that were being conducted within the arrival routes and the confusion surrounding the operations. ACN: 1391101 (90f50) Synopsis Albuquerque Center Controller reported an unsafe parachute operation that permitted jumpers to exit the aircraft above enroute IFR traffic. Reporter recommended a marker be put on the map to identify the area as a skydiving zone. ACN: 1378578 (100f50) Synopsis Captain of a sky diving aircraft reported losing consciousness on a flight at FL250, even though he was on oxygen. ACN: 1373576(110f50) Synopsis CRP Tower Controller reported a conflict between a parachute operation and a flight of training aircraft that flew underneath the skydivers. Reporter responded to a pilot inquiry and resolved the situation. ACN: 1326921 (120f50) Synopsis An aircraft was issued a clearance to cross a fix at 14000 feet to avoid parachute jumping activity along its route at 13000 feet. The pilot readback 12000 feet. The Controller did not detect the erroneous readback. ACN: 1325954 (130f50) Synopsis The pilot of a sky diving aircraft reported a ground conflict during takeoff due to improper CTAF operations. The flight crew did not realize that the communication radio in use had the volume set very low. ACN•. 1318563 (140f50) Synopsis Air carrier flight crew experienced an airborne conflict and TCAS RA after level-off following the POGGI 5 RNAV departure procedure. Conflicting aircraft was preparing to drop skydivers from the same altitude. ATC issued clearance for a higher altitude. ACN•. 1317220 (150f50)
Synopsis PHL Local Controller reported a loss of separation when a helicopter passed under an aircraft transporting skydivers. The Controller had not been advised that the jumpers had exited the aircraft. Reporter noted a lack of communication between TRACON and Tower supervisors. ACN: 1310733 (160f50) Synopsis TRACON Controller working parachute jump aircraft did not coordinate the Jumpers leaving the aircraft with the Tower. Reportedly, the jumper's area is in confliction with the VOR Approach. The Tower Controller had to break the aircraft off their approach to resolve a conflict. ACN: 1308828 (170f50) Synopsis Aircraft climbing on departure responded to a TCAS/RA. Aircraft then sighted the traffic and skydivers which were jumping from the TCAS traffic aircraft. The Controller had not issued traffic. The Controller advised the departing traffic that the Controller did not think they were close. ACN: 1308723 (180f50) Synopsis Cessna 208B pilot reported directional control problems during taxi. ACN: 1290774 (19#50) Synopsis ZNY Center Controller reported of a skydiving aircraft that ignored ATC instructions, argued with controllers on frequency, and gave misleading information to have his requests approved. ACN•. 1287318 Synopsis VFR aircraft requested an altitude to drop parachute jumpers. Controller restricted the aircraft 1,000 feet below its requested altitude and advises there will be a delay for approval for jumpers due to traffic. VFR aircraft releases parachute jumpers anyway and advises Controller to move traffic away from the jump area. ACN: 1285018 (21 of50) Synopsis Aircraft Y, a VFR parachute aircraft, was descending out of 11,500 feet. Aircraft X, an air carrier, was below Aircraft Y while climbing on a converging heading. Aircraft X received a
TCAS/RA on Aircraft Y and responded accordingly. Aircraft Y released parachutists in the immediate vicinity of the Aircraft X's departure route. ACN: 1280108 (22 of50) Synopsis ZNY Controller reports of a skydiving operation in close proximity to an arrival route into LGA. Controller states aircraft pilot did not advise when all jumpers where out. The Controller reports that IFR aircraft were stopped at altitudes to keep them away from the jumpers and this made them high on the approach. ACN•. 1278496 (23 of50) Synopsis A C182 pilot experiences a NMAC with a skydiving aircraft at 5,500 feet over Ritzville, Washington. VFR flight following with Seattle Center was in use but no traffic call was issued. ACN: 1277443 (240f50) Synopsis TRACON Controller reports of a loss of separation between two aircraft. Controller was training a Developmental that he was unfamiliar with and let the situation go too far. Instructor took over but aircraft did not respond timely. ACN: 1276120 (250f50) Synopsis A New York Center (ZNY) Controller reports of an aircraft that drops sky divers while conflicting traffic for it is inbound to an airport in close proximity. The Controller thinks this operation is not safe. The pilot was not on frequency all of the time and was off coordinating on UNICOM. ACN: 1269826 (260f50) Synopsis Controller reports of a VFR pilot who didn't initially turn as instructed away from another aircraft that was IFR. Pilot took turn and then questioned Controller as to why they had to turn. Controller advised it was for traffic. Pilot questioned if something had changed to the LOA. Controller advised no, they were turned for traffic. Company owner called T RACON and wanted the Controller "tuned up. " ACN: 1267986 (270f50) Synopsis BE-65 pilot reported shutting down right engine when smoke was spotted coming from the nacelle. He was unable to fully extend the landing gear and the gear collapsed on landing.
ACN:1265851 (280f50) Synopsis Twin engine, high wing turboprop First Officer reported losing an engine shortly after takeoff. Flight diverted to a nearby airfield where a safe landing was made. ACN: 1255091 Synopsis ZLA Controller explains that an aircraft reported an aircraft 500 feet below them. The area and altitude of the aircraft was in SCT airspace and also an area of known parachuting. The aircraft was on a discreet code indicating its involvement. The ZLA Controller advised that SCT should have issued traffic to the aircraft or kept the aircraft until the conflict was no longer a factor. ACN: 1249161 (300f50) Synopsis C182 pilot experiences engine failure during a go-around, after a long steep descent from a jump run. The pilot landed in emergency condition on a field and the engine restarted just after touch down. Fuel starvation was thought to be the cause for the engine quitting and restarting shortly after. ACN: 1235651 (31 Synopsis ZDC Controller reports about confusion with an aircraft in holding and a skydiving aircraft that wanted to drop above the holding aircraft. The pilots of the two aircraft communicated with each other and the skydiving aircraft stayed below the holding aircraft. ACN: 1229025 (320f50) Synopsis P50 TMC describes a situation where an aircraft is supposed to make three runs over a target, then when airborne changes its plan and drops skydivers unknown to ATC. Departing traffic has to deviate around falling skydivers. ACN: 1227358 (330f50) Synopsis BE90 pilot transporting skydivers experiences an engine failure at 9,000 feet. The engine is shut down and the skydivers are allowed to jump over their normal drop point. Upon returning to the airport the gear is forgotten and a gear up landing ensues. ACN: 1221689 (340f50) Synopsis
A conflict resulted when a King Air C90 departing Runway 12 and an arriving sailplane on Runway 30 failed to co-ordinate their operations. The sailplane altered its arrival runway to facilitate separation. ACN•. 1218788 (350f50) Synopsis Air carrier First Officer reported multiple TA's and RA's on the flight to PHX at 10,000 feet and suggests filing for a higher altitude on this route. ACN: 1204684 (360f50) Synopsis C172 Flight Instructor with student on V94 at 6,500 FT, reports a NMAC with skydivers over E60 airport. The reporter had been monitoring the CTAF for E60 and heard no calls for jumpers away. ACN•. 1200795 (370f50) Synopsis SLC Controller reports of miscommunication between TRACON and Tower reference jumpers being on the ground and allowing aircraft in close proximity. ACN: 1200790 (380f50) Synopsis SLC Tower Controller reports of parachuting exercise going on in close proximity to the airport. ACN: 1197571 (390f50) Synopsis A C182 engine caught fire during engine start forcing the pilot and four sky divers to evacuate. Hand fire extinguishers quelled the fire before fire fighters arrived but the ignited fuel's source is unknown. ACN: 1196787(400f50) Synopsis A C90 skydiving jump pilot at 14,500 feet attempted to avoid dropping his jumpers on a cloud at about 6,000 feet but was told after landing the divers had penetrated the cloud. ACN: 1194639 (41 of50) Synopsis
A glider pilot near N85 saw parachutist I mile ahead and circled to gain altitude but was then approach very closely by the jump aircraft twice before exiting the area. ACN: 1194057(420f50) Synopsis ZOB Controller reports of an incident involving a skydiving aircraft that isn't pointed out to him and he has to find out what the aircraft is going to do. ACN: 1186676 (43#50) Synopsis NCT controller reports of a situation where it is believed enough time has passed for skydivers to be on the ground and has an aircraft go through that airspace. ACN: 1184829 (440f50) Synopsis SCT Controller reports a situation where an IFR aircraft offsets its missed approach for skydiving activity. ACN•. 1176778 (450f50) Synopsis ZBW describes situation where he is distracted by one aircraft while two others lose required separation. ACN: 1172998 (460f50) Synopsis AUS Controller describes an operational error involving a no radio aircraft and an aircraft that had just dropped parachuter's. ACN: 1163172 (470f50) Synopsis Aeronca Champ pilot experiences a NMAC with a Lancair who flew under him on short final to an uncontrolled airport. The Champ pilot was making power off landings which resulted in steep approaches and had no radio. ACN•. 1162611 (480f50) Synopsis ZJX ARTCC Controller states issue with pilot not advising jumpers away warning two minutes prior. Pilot did not comply with instructions.
ACN:1146345 (490f50) Synopsis C172 instructor with student reports sighting a skydiver under canopy in the practice area and turns away. A few minutes later the jump plane is detected in loose formation, attempting to obtain a tail number. There were no NOTAMs. ACN: 1124136 (500f50) Synopsis SC T Controller described a TCAS RA event between an air carrier departure and a Military "jump" aircraft operating to a jump zone, the reporter acknowledging his/her assumptions led to the occurrence.
Report Narratives
Time / Day Date : 201712 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.SingIe Value : 1000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Ceiling : CLR Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Luscombe Model 8/Luscombe 50 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use : None Airspace.CIass G : ZZZ Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Aircraft Operator : FBO Make Model Name : Single Engine Turboprop Undifferentiated Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Skydiving Flight Phase : Final Approach Route In Use : None Airspace.CIass G : ZZZ Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 4350 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 25 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 200
ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1503278 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly.Conflict : NMAC Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.HorizontaI : 100 Miss Distance.VerticaI : O When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I was in cruise at 1000 MSL. Approximately 2.5 NW of airport, intending to enter crosswind leg for Runway XX (in use, several aircraft in pattern). Skydiving single engine appeared in windscreen, ahead, 11 0'clock, very close (100-250 ft.), in Steep descent for Runway YY to land. I was listening on CTAF, but never heard his call(s). The skydiving plane rarely uses runway in use, instead preferring nearest available. Very dangerous when multiple aircraft are using another runway. Frequently "cut off" others. Skydiving aircraft has a very steep descent angle and unpredictable path. My aircraft has hand-held radio only, reception is 0k but transmission is poor. [I'd recommend] extreme vigilance. Better radio transmit/receive. Recommend the skydiving aircraft use same runway as others when more than one aircraft is in the pattern and be more vigilant/aware of others. Always enter pattern on the 45 downwind. Synopsis Luscombe 8 pilot reported entering the crosswind at an uncontrolled airport while another aircraft entered the pattern unannounced for the crossing runway.
Time / Day Date : 201710 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ATL.Airport State Reference : GA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 13000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : A80 Aircraft Operator : FBO Make Model Name : Small Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turboprop Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Skydiving Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass E : A80 Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.TRACON : A80 Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Climb Airspace.Class E : A80 Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : FBO Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 2050 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 100 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 450
ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1491197 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Facility : A80.TRACON Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Enroute Function.Air Traffic Control : Handoff / Assist Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos 1 (yrs) .1 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1490658 Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.Horizontal : 1000 Miss Distance.Vertical : 3000 When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Airspace Structure Narrative: 1 On final jump run at 13,500 feet, I saw an airliner climbing up through our drop zone toward the northeast. I've been flying skydive operations every weekend for almost three years. I follow the same procedure at all times and maintain constant communication between ATC and advisory. No one gave us any kind of alert that traffic would be coming through drop zone and when I notified ATC they paused. After a few seconds I asked if they copied my traffic report and they did confirm. Nothing else was said regarding the matter. I am very diligent about complying with ATC instruction and suggestions when I fly skydive operations and they are very good at giving me a nice picture to visualize if anyone is in the area. This is the closest I've seen an aircraft that was unexpected in our drop zone. Narrative: 2 I was performing the handoff functions for the sector. When I acquired the position it was fairly busy already. Aircraft X called for radar services however the controller was too busy to acknowledge the aircraft. I was busy answering landlines and coordinating other aircraft. I don't believe the controller was even able to acknowledge the aircraft at all. After a few minutes Aircraft X indicated that he was almost hit by a commuter jet. Aircraft X was VFR. I didn't have a chance to point the aircraft out to any adjacent sectors due to work load.
A third sector needed to be opened for frequency relief however there was not enough staffing to accommodate this. Synopsis Skydiving pilot and TRACON Controller reported an aircraft was permitted to fly through the skydiving operation active jump zone.
Time / Day Date : 201709 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZLC.ARTCC State Reference : UT Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 10500 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZLC Aircraft Operator : FBO Make Model Name : Small Aircraft, High Wing, 1 Eng, Fixed Gear Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Skydiving Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : VFR Route Airspace.CIass E : ZLC Person Reference : I Location Of Person.FaciIity : ZLC.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Enroute Function.Air Traffic Control : Supervisor / CIC Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1481254 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Other / Unknown Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors
Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Company Policy Narrative: 1 Aircraft X routinely does parachute operations on the departure end of GPI. Business owner, pilot, and GPI Tower have all been notified multiple times of the unsafe proximity of their jump operation to arriving and departing aircraft. The jump plane had been issued traffic departing GPI, and still let his jumpers go. Departing aircraft from GPI reporting seeing the parachute lines within close proximity to him. Jump aircraft receives traffic advisories but gives no heed to his proximity of other aircraft. It is just a matter of time before something catastrophic happens. Jump aircraft should be required to coordinate jumps with ATC. ATC should have authorization to deny a jump with aircraft in close proximity. Pilot of jump aircraft should be subject to questioning for multiple unsafe drops with other aircraft. Synopsis ZLC Center Supervisor reported a parachute jump aircraft released their jumpers over an airport even though they knew there was an aircraft departing the airport.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZDV.ARTCC State Reference : CO Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 16000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZDV Aircraft Operator : FBO Make Model Name : Small Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Skydiving Flight Phase : Climb Route In Use : VFR Route Airspace.Class E : ZDV Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.Center : ZDV Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Small Aircraft, High Wing, I Eng, Fixed Gear Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Direct Airspace.CIass E : ZDV Person Reference : I Location Of Person.FaciIity : ZDV.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Enroute Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control.Time Certified In Pos 1 (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1469580 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Communication Breakdown
Communication Breakdown.PartyI . • ATC Communication Breakdown. Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : NMAC Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.HorizontaI : 150 Miss Distance.VerticaI : O When Detected : In-flight : Clearance Result.Flight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 I was working the radar controller position. This particular airspace goes from the surface to FL 260, and is a vast area of airspace. There is a parachute jumping business that flies routinely in this sector. It is our procedure when they check on to assist in VFR flight following around their airport so that they may conduct their parachute operations safely. The aircraft knows to call Center to request a transponder code. We then issue the transponder code to the aircraft, radar identify the aircraft, give them an altimeter, verify their altitude and then advise them to advise Center of "one minute prior to jumpers", meaning they will advise one minute before they release any of their clients out of the aircraft. This one minute notification is to allow us to tell them about any traffic that may be between them and the airport that could interfere with the jumpers or the aircraft's descent. The jump aircraft appeared on my radar scope with their code. I tagged up his radar data block with the code and transmitted on the radio "Aircraft X, radar contact 10 miles south of the ZZZ airport.... altimeter...say altitude and advise one minute prior." Aircraft X responded with "position checks, altitude.. .and we will give one minute." As the aircraft is climbing up to altitude, I had Aircraft Y, an IFR overflight at 16000 feet, flying over the airport. I advised Aircraft X about the IFR traffic and I also advised them of the VFR aircraft climbing, and that they were a parachute jump aircraft. Neither aircraft had each other in sight, however they both said they were looking. Several seconds later, I continued my scan and took care of other matters in my sector. I returned to the traffic situation and saw that Aircraft X and turned directly towards Aircraft Y and was continuing his climb out of 15000 feet. I transmitted to Aircraft X "Aircraft X, that IFR traffic is 12 0'clock and 3 miles, suggest you maintain one five thousand five hundred and I'll call when traffic is clear." Aircraft X responded with a "Roger, we are I minute prior to jumpers". I responded to Aircraft X and told him other than that traffic, there was no other observed traffic between him and the airport. I then advised Aircraft Y that the jump aircraft would be maintaining 15500 feet. Aircraft Y acknowledged my transmission. After completing another scan of my radar
scope I returned back to the traffic situation to see that Aircraft X in fact did NOT maintain 15000 feet, but continued to climb. I made another traffic call to Aircraft X "Aircraft X, traffic 12 0'clock and immediately off of your nose" to which he replied "Aircraft X, we can't see over our nose right now, we are 20 seconds to jumpers". I advised him of the Aircraft Y traffic, AGAIN, terminated radar service, switched him from Center frequency and told him to report back up on his next jump. After terminating the radar for Aircraft X, the Aircraft Y keyed up and said "Center, I thought that aircraft was stopping at one five thousand five hundred. That was a little too close for comfort, he missed us by maybe one hundred and fifty feet." I did not acknowledge that aircraft at that point, but proceeded to catch up on the rest of my sector. Aircraft Y keyed up again several minutes later to ask what had happened and I apologized to the aircraft, and said that I thought the jump aircraft would be maintaining one five thousand five hundred and that I would speak with the pilot when he came back up. Synopsis ZDV Center Controller observed a VFR parachute jump aircraft climb through the altitude of an enroute IFR aircraft that the VFR aircraft had been advised of.
Time / Day Date : 201612 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 9500 Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : FBO Make Model Name : Small Aircraft Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 119 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Skydiving Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : VFR Route Airspace.Class E : ZZZ Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Make Model Name : Small Aircraft Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : None Airspace.CIass E : ZZZ Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Facility : ZZZ.TRACON Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Approach Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1409538 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events : 22.0
Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Other / Unknown Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : ATC Equipment / Nav Facility / Buildings Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 Moderate traffic mid morning, sometimes it gets busy. I was conducting training. There were a couple of military aircraft that came in IFR for practice approaches but were really not a problem, spaced out between traffic. There was an aircraft northbound, westbound, and eastbound, within 40 miles of ZZZ airport, my trainee gave different altitudes to these aircraft so they were not a factor for each other. Aircraft X called up off ZZZ airport, and stated that he was going to be doing parachute operations. We knew he was coming out, because the supervisor had told us an aircraft would depart for jumping operations. I'm not sure when Aircraft Y called the first time, but he was given a squawk code, and later radar contact was taken on the aircraft when he announced 5 minutes to jump. A few minutes later he called jumpers away. The trainee looked, and saw traffic westbound, that was travelling in the direction of Aircraft Y, and he called traffic, which we were not sure they heard, and then he called traffic again. He called traffic, and the plane responded that he was broadcasting, but no one was answering. My understanding of the 7110.65, is that if there is "known traffic" we are required to give them the information of the parachute jumping operation. If it is traffic that we are not talking to there is no requirement for us to broadcast about the jumping activity like there is for fuel dumping. I'm not sure if there was a NOTAM put out for parachute jumping, or if there is a requirement for one to be put out but our sector does not normally talk to aircraft east of ZZZ because radio and radar coverage is so poor in that area. This could very well have been a life threatening accident, with the aircraft flying below the area where jumping is in progress, so whether a NOTAM should be put out for aircraft to avoid the area, or we should be equipped with better radar in the area, and better frequency reception in the area, so we could have seen the traffic earlier, and made a broadcast. Synopsis A T RACON Controller reported observing an unidentified VFR aircraft fly through an area of parachute jumping operations.
Time / Day Date : 201612 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZAB.ARTCC State Reference : NM Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 7500 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Any Unknown or Unlisted Aircraft Manufacturer Operating Under FAR Part : Part 119 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Skydiving Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : None Airspace.CIass E : ZAB Person Reference : I Location Of Person.FaciIity : ZAB.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Supervisor / CIC Function.Air Traffic Control : Enroute Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1408358 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Other / Unknown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Communication Breakdown.Party1 : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Analyst Callback : Completed Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly Deviation - Procedural : Other / Unknown Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 Airspace Structure Company Policy Environment - Non Weather Related Procedure My controller working R46 asked me to take a look at the scope. He told me that there was HAHO (High Altitude High Opening) operations at E60 and they had just dropped and we could see the primary targets returning to E60. When the controller asked me to look the jumpers were about 4 miles south of E60 drifting back. There was an unidentified target at 7500 feet heading south that was about 2 miles south of E60. The controller transmitted in the blind hoping the pilot was monitoring the frequency. The target flew directly through the primary targets of the jumpers and then made a 40 degree left turn. I have no idea what altitude the jumpers were at but this aircraft flew directly into the primary targets. If the jumpers at E60 want to execute HAHO jumps the pilot should circle down above the highest jumper so that we can talk to the pilot and he can give us updates on where the jumpers are. Callback: 1 Reporter stated the parajumping activity described in this report causes recurring problems and is a safety issue for aircraft and the parajumpers. Synopsis ZAB ARTCC FLM reported observing an unidentified VFR aircraft fly through the path of skydivers at 7500 feet.
Time / Day Date : 201612 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZZZ.TRACON State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 13000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : FBO Make Model Name : Caravan Undifferentiated Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Skydiving Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.Class E : ZZZ Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : FBO Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 1200 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1406892 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Confusion Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken
Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 Airport Environment - Non Weather Related Human Factors Procedure Departed a private airstrip with jumpers on board to conduct parachute jump operations. After passing two thousand feet I contacted the local controlling agency to request traffic advisories during the climb, jump, and descent of the operation. I made the standard two minute call to ATC and ATC began to give advisories to the surrounding area that parachute jumping was in effect in 2 minutes. Before releasing the jumpers ATC informed me Of an aircraft 2 miles northwest of my position, headed southbound. Not overly concerned with the traffic advisory because the suspect primary target was headed away from the drop zone, I told ATC I copied and we were 30 seconds from the jump on our current heading (giving more info to ATC to see if opposite direction traffic would pose a threat to our flight path). ATC did not advise of a potential conflict and I knew the traffic was heading in the opposite direction. I gave the command for the jumpers to open the door, spot, and exit. Upon descent I saw an aircraft fly directly over the drop zone where the jumpers were. I called ATC up and asked if they were talking to the aircraft and they were not. I cancelled radar services and began trying to contact the suspect plane on the local CTAF frequencies of nearby airports (Airports not in our immediate vicinity) to raise the pilot but with no luck. The aircraft apparently made a 90 turn in course and headed directly for the DZ, causing jumpers to pass extremely close to it in free-fall. Synopsis A C-208 jump plane pilot reported advising ATC two minutes prior to jumpers exiting and was told of one aircraft headed away from the jump zone. After jumpers departed, the pilot detected an aircraft over the jump zone which ATC had not advised him about.
Time / Day Date : 201611 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : PHX.Airport State Reference : AZ Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 13500 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZAB Aircraft Operator : FBO Make Model Name : Small Transport Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Skydiving Flight Phase : Climb Route In Use : None Route In Use.STAR : PINNGI Airspace.Class E : ZAB Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.Center : ZAB Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Regional Jet 700 ER/LR (CRJ700) Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Descent Airspace.CIass E : ZAB Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Facility : ZAB.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Enroute Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) : 12 Experience.Air Traffic Control.Time Certified In Pos 1 (mon) : 8 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1402384 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Confusion
Human Factors Human Factors Human Factors Human Factors : Distraction : Situational Awareness : Workload : Human-Machine Interface Communication Breakdown.PartyI : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Other Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.Airspace Violation : All Types Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Detector. Person : Flight Crew Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Airspace Structure Narrative: 1 Like so many other reports, I was working 46. Again. I had three jumps up at Eloy, one at Area 51 (7 miles east of Eloy), and three intermittently up at Coolidge. I had a string of arrivals on the arrival into PHX. I probably had 18 aircraft, but I didn't even remotely have time to count. You guys have seen enough reports to know how much of a problem the PHX arrivals going between these two busy jump zones is (plus Area 51, plus Sawtooth, plus CGZ, plus MZJ in the sector). I was pretty busy with a ton of VFRs and all the other operations the sector has. One of the jumps (Aircraft X I think) circled pretty far northeast bound, basically right into the arrival. He was definitely out of the jump zone and the climb box. I had another jump just previous to Aircraft X who had done the same thing at 150, necessitating me stopping two arrivals at 160 above him. It was at 120, then went to 130, then 135. I had an arrival at 140 on the PINNG that was already descending via (hadn't started down yet) that I then climbed to 150 for Aircraft X. The CRJ [Aircraft Y] questioned the clearance and I told him it was for traffic. I instructed Aircraft X to maintain VFR at or below 13,500 for traffic. I can't remember if I called the traffic. At this point I was hanging on for dear life and all wanted to do was avoid having them hit. Incidentally, [two days before] I had [another aircraft] doing the same thing, climbing into the arrival with two CRJs on the PINNG. One of the pilots questioned the sanity of the jump operation on the arrival. Literally, he said it was insane. Then, of course, there is our atrocious staffing. We only have 28 CPCs in the area. By my calculation, we should have a minimum of 38, especially when you consider the ECV [External Compliance Verification] we had earlier this year and how critical they were of us
not staffing D sides and going down the toilet constantly. Realistically, we need more than 38. Our facility staffing number is 180, but it should be closer to 210. [A coworker] and I wrote a letter asking for the number to be raised based on our D side needs and our traffic climbing, but no ever got back to us. That was nearly a year ago. I give permission to share this report with all relevant parties. I don't know what to say. Sure the 49 ultra low will help with workload, but the bottom line of the problem is a major arrival into a major hub airport going between two of the busiest jump airports in the world. Procedurally I think we need a better handle on Part 105 operations. From a system standpoint, 46 obviously exceeds controller workload consistently, although the TSD [Traffic Situation Display] would lead you to believe the sector is sedate. We absolutely need to count VFRs on the T SD. Maybe 46 would be constantly red (which, believe it or not, I've actually heard as a reason not to lower MAP [Monitor Alert Parameters] numbers), but I really don't care. The sector needs to be handled better, by everyone (Operations Manager, Front Line Managers, controllers, Traffic Management Unit). Synopsis Albuquerque Center Controller reported of parachute operations that were being conducted within the arrival routes and the confusion surrounding the operations.
Time / Day Date : 201609 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZAB.ARTCC State Reference : NM Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 11500 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZAB Make Model Name : Small Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part.Other Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Skydiving Flight Phase.Other Airspace.CIass E : ZAB Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory Center : ZAB Make Model Name : Small Aircraft Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass E : ZAB Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Facility : ZAB.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Enroute Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1391101 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Confusion Communication Breakdown.Party1 : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance : 15
Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 Human Factors Procedure Aircraft X conducting parachute drop operations at the airport failed to take into account the traffic that was beneath him at 090 and released jumpers above the IFR aircraft. Aircraft X had made a 2 minute prior to release call. Traffic calls about the aircraft at 090 and 2 other aircraft were [reported] at that time. Aircraft X was at 115 and Aircraft Y was at 090. If Aircraft X hadn't released jumpers above and directly in front of Aircraft Y, there would have been no problem. Had Aircraft X explained his plan to release jumpers above the enroute IFR aircraft I certainly would have given Aircraft Y an advisory about the planned operation. I think that even with notice of the planned activity, Aircraft Y still would not have felt safe with the jumpers descending from above him at his 12 0'clock position. The sector needs a permanent marker on the map as to where this parachute airport is located so we can accurately inform aircraft in the vicinity Of where the parachute operations are occurring. Having a location identifier that the aircraft can look on a map to see where the airport is in relation to his flight would be helpful. Having the jump aircraft explain that he will be releasing jumpers above the traffic that is being called to him so we can take appropriate action would be helpful. We need to know where the jumpers are going to release in relation to the field, with the field marked on the map on the scope. Synopsis Albuquerque Center Controller reported an unsafe parachute operation that permitted jumpers to exit the aircraft above enroute IFR traffic. Reporter recommended a marker be put on the map to identify the area as a skydiving zone.
Time / Day Date : 201608 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZZZ.ARTCC State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 24000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : FBO Make Model Name : Light Transport, High Wing, 2 Turboprop Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Skydiving Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass A : ZZZ Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : FBO Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 3000 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 60 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 500 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1378578 Human Factors : Physiological - Other Events Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Illness Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : Physical Injury / Incapacitation Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Environment - Non Weather Related Narrative: 1 Conducting high altitude skydive operations. Jump run was to be at FL 250. Pilot and all occupants using supplemental 02. At FL240 1 felt like I was not getting enough 02 1 increased 02 delivery and [the doctor] onboard checked my blood 02 level which was 97%. At FL240 1 made a "2 minutes to jump" call on Unicom, and began a left turn to heading of 010. That is my last recollection before realizing that the other pilot on the plane had taken control from the right seat and had dropped jumpers. Aircraft and jumpers landed without incident. Synopsis Captain of a sky diving aircraft reported losing consciousness on a flight at FL250, even though he was on oxygen.
Time / Day Date : 201607 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : CRP.Tower State Reference : TX Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 10500 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : CRP Aircraft Operator : FBO Make Model Name : Skyhawk 172/CutIass 172 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Skydiving Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass E : CRP Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.Tower : CRP Aircraft Operator : Military Make Model Name : T6A Texan 11 / Harvard 11 (Raytheon) Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Tactical Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : None Airspace.Class E : CRP Person Reference : I Location Of Person.FaciIity : CRP.Tower Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Local Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Developmental ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1373576 Communication Breakdown Confusion : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Human Factors : Human Factors Human Factors Communication Communication Communication Events : Distraction Breakdown.Party1 . Breakdown. Partyl Breakdown. Party2 • ATC : Flight Crew : Flight Crew
Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 I had been on flight data for 14 minutes and slid to the Local East position to relieve the controller so they could slide to another position for a certification check ride. I was briefed that Aircraft X (parachute jump aircraft) was aware of the training flight (Aircraft Y) and that Aircraft X would give a 1 minute call prior to releasing the parachute jumpers. I had 4 IFR aircraft under my control being vectored for various approaches into NGP. Aircraft Y was passed as being on our local channel 18 and RDR service terminated. When Aircraft X announced I minute, I made the blanket broadcast over the frequencies for the military training aircraft to remain clear of RAS for parachute operations. CRP does not normally keep channel 18 keyed up and I do not recall whether or not I had it keyed at the time of my general broadcast. Shortly after, Aircraft X asked who the Texans were that flew underneath his jumpers. I told him to stand by, verified that the flight was in the vicinity of RAS, transmitted on CH 18 to the Aircraft Y flight to work west of RAS for jump operations and the flight lead acknowledged. No further issues during that jump. Aircraft X launched I more time while I was on the position without incident. There are a number of things that could be implemented to preclude this from happening again. I) Keep all formation flights on CH 17 with the other training flights working the alert 632 area. 2) Have the jump school deliver a daily flight schedule to CRP in order to disseminate to the controllers so that they are aware of the scheduled parachute operations prior to assuming the position. Once jump aircraft is airborne, ensure controller has CH 18 keyed and broadcasts all transmissions on that frequency until jump operations are complete. 3) Do not terminate radar services of the aircraft working the central (formation flight) area. Synopsis CRP Tower Controller reported a conflict between a parachute operation and a flight of training aircraft that flew underneath the skydivers. Reporter responded to a pilot inquiry and resolved the situation.
Time / Day Date : 201601 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZZZ.ARTCC State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 12000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Night Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Medium Large Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use : Vectors Airspace.Class E : ZZZ Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.Center : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : FBO Make Model Name : Small Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Skydiving Flight Phase : Climb Airspace.Class E : ZZZ Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Facility : ZZZ.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Enroute Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1326921 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Situational Awareness : 21
Communication Breakdown.PartyI . • ATC Communication Breakdown. Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Crossing Restriction Not Met Anomaly.Deviation - Track / Heading : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Result.Air Traffic Control : Separated Traffic Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 I had to vector out Aircraft X on the arrival into ZZZ for spacing. I turned him back towards ZZZZ intersection and descended him to 14000 feet. I had taken a point out on a jump aircraft climbing up VFR to 13000 feet to drop jumpers near ZZZZ intersection. I had asked a controller to stop his aircraft at 16000 feet so I can get 2 arrivals down to 14000 feet. I pointed out an aircraft to the controller climbing out of ZZZI. I gave Aircraft X cross ZZZZ intersection at 14000 feet (He read back 12000 feet garbled but readable on playback). While he was reading that back I noticed that the other sector had begun descending his [aircraft] to cross ZZZ VOR at 14000 feet. I immediately told him to stop that plane at 15000 feet (He apologized later). I noticed it took Aircraft X almost 10 miles to begin his turn to ZZZZ intersection. A few minutes later I saw Aircraft X data block update to 13800 feet. Next update was 13400 feet about 7 miles from ZZZZ intersection. I verified he was crossing ZZZZ intersection at 14000 feet. He said "no, YOU cleared us to 12000 feet". My clearance on playback was extremely clear and was ZZZZ intersection at 14000 feet. I issued a 30 degree left turn and climb to 14000 feet and issued the traffic I o'clock 10 miles a jump aircraft. 4 miles later I saw Aircraft X turning right to join the arrival. I told him I gave that 30 degrees prior to ZZZZ intersection to ensure distance between him and the jump aircraft who was now at altitude and jumpers could be in the air (currently Aircraft X was still below 13000 feet). I finally got prompt compliance from Aircraft X. These jump aircraft should not be allowed to drop on an arrival route into a major airport, or should be restricted to 11000 feet. The arrival descends to 12000 feet at ZZZ VOR. Also, I recommend this incident be "pulled" and a Falcon Radar replay made to be distributed to the airline safety groups to show how lack of prompt compliance could lead to catastrophic problems. Synopsis
An aircraft was issued a clearance to cross a fix at 14000 feet to avoid parachute jumping activity along its route at 13000 feet. The pilot readback 12000 feet. The Controller did not detect the erroneous readback.
Time / Day Date : 201601 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 15000 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Military : 30 Make Model Name : Light Transport, High Wing, 2 Turboprop Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Skydiving Flight Phase : Takeoff Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : RV-6 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Phase : Taxi Component Aircraft Component : Air/Ground Communication Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Improperly Operated Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Military Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP)
Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.FIight Crew : Flight Engineer Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 8800 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 40 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 40 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1325954 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Other / Unknown Anomaly Conflict : Ground Conflict, Critical Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airport Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Ambiguous Narrative: 1 During parachute operations for military parachute training flight, we landed for fuel and a military jumper delay. CTAF was in radio #1, with the military ground station on the #2 radio. Due to some difficulty in hearing [military ground station], radio #1 volume was turned down. We picked up jumpers and taxied to Runway 02. We monitored C TAF and made a call taxiing to 02, then departing 02. On the taxiway 90 degrees to the runway at the arrival end, I called "clear left" for traffic, and the pilot in the right seat called "clear right. I checked left and right, advanced the propellers to high RPM, and placed the left engine in flight idle as I completed the turn onto the runway. At [this airport], jump traffic departs 02 and lands 20, opposite direction. Traffic on final is generally expected high, as the base leg to final is often 5,000 feet or higher, as arriving traffic arrives on a steep descent from the jump run. I checked opposite-direction final and placed the right power lever in flight idle, then advanced both engines to 50 PSI and began the takeoff roll. At approximately 60 knots, I noticed something on the runway, though it was hard to see. The right seat pilot noted it too, and shortly thereafter we were able to see a small airplane moving opposite direction, on the surface. We were unable to determine if it was landing, taking off, or taxiing. It was grey, without lights, and a checkerboard paint scheme that made it hard to see and broke up the outline. It was low to the ground with short conventional landing gear. When we both recognized the traffic, the right seat pilot called out "abort, abort, abort." I was unable to determine distance to the other aircraft or
to know whether we could stop in time, given decreasing distance, and an accelerate-stop distance that would have taken us well down the runway. I declined to reject the takeoff, and instead angled the aircraft left. At that point we were at rotation speed. The right seat pilot pulled back on the control wheel as we approached the runway edge, and we became airborne. The other airplane turned off the runway at the runway midfield access intersection. We climbed out normally. The right seat pilot commented that it was the closest call he had experienced in [many] years, and was clearly shaken. He called on the radio, but received no response. He checked the volume, and found that he had lowered it when we taxied to the ramp on the previous flight. When the right seat pilot called out "why didn't you make any position reports?" the pilot of the aircraft radioed back that he had made numerous calls. This was confirmed by company aircraft on the company frequency. None Of that information had been relayed to us, and we did not hear the pilot's call, due to the decreased radio volume. We did not see the RV pilot, either due to looking for traffic at the usual higher approach angle for [this airport], or because he was already on the ground. Unlighted and with a paint scheme that made identification difficult (and no lighting), we did not see that aircraft. The RV pilot apparently made no effort to take evasive action or to go around. I elected to deviate to the left during the takeoff roll, rather than right for two reasons: the runway access taxiway exited to our right and it appeared that the aircraft was attempting to vacate there. The other reason I elected to deviate to the left on Runway 02 was that it presented no immediate obstacles, a flat dirt area outside the runway in the event we left the pavement on the ground, and no obstacles beyond, for the climb. A deviation to our right would have turned us toward waiting jumpers, the exiting aircraft, aircraft on the ramp, and the maintenance hangar and trees. I intend to modify my departure procedures during jump operations at [this airport] to include a radio squelch check to determine volume during taxi, use of landing lights during the takeoff roll, and a more thorough scan of opposing final approach traffic (high, low and on the ground), to ensure this does not happen again. It has been brought to the attention of management personnel at [the airport], including the Chief Pilot. Synopsis The pilot of a sky diving aircraft reported a ground conflict during takeoff due to improper CTAF operations. The flight crew did not realize that the communication radio in use had the volume set very low.
Time / Day Date : 201512 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : SCT.TRACON State Reference : CA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 14000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : SCT Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Large Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Climb Route In Use.SID : POGGI 5 Airspace.CIass E : SCT Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Aircraft Operator : FBO Make Model Name : Small Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Skydiving Flight Phase : Climb Airspace.CIass E : SCT Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1318563 Person : 2
Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Check Pilot Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1318017 Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Excursion From Assigned Altitude Detector.Automation : Aircraft TA Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 Flight from SAN. Climbing on the POGGI 5 RNAV departure. Out of 12,000 feet on our way to assigned altitude of 14,000 feet the departure controller queried whether we could maintain current rate of climb all the way to 14,000 which we answered yes. Current rate was 2200 FPM and I selected VS to maintain the climb as requested. A traffic TA was activated for an aircraft preparing to drop skydivers at our 11 0'clock and approximately 5 miles. As we leveled at 14,000 feet I decided this traffic might be a factor and disengaged the autopilot and began a climb just as the TCAS entered the RA mode Of "monitor vertical speed". The captain notified ATC we were climbing for traffic, and we were issued a higher altitude. The captain had the other aircraft in sight and said it was no factor. Once clear of the conflict, the flight continued normally with no further comment from ATC. It all happened pretty fast, but this seems to be a poor setup for the departure. If the skydiving operation is known to be near this departure corridor, a minimum altitude on the SID which is above the known drop zone at a point before reaching the drop zone would ensure this doesn't happen again. Also, I believe the controller probably meant to issue us an altitude assignment of 15,000 but had only given us 14,000. 15,000 would have avoided this issue all together and is actually published as the top altitude on the SID. Narrative: 2 We were cleared to 14,000 feet climbing out on the Poggi 5 departure from SAN departure control. While passing 12,000 feet ATC asked us if we could hold our current climb rate through 14,000. We replied "yes" and continued our 2,200 FPM on our climb. Approaching 14,000 feet I saw an aircraft indicating our altitude on the TCAS. I contacted ATC and asked if he wanted us to climb higher. He replied with climb to FL230. I then saw the traffic just as the TCAS RA went off telling us to monitor our vertical speed. The FO took over and manually continued the climb which kept us within the RA parameters. The other aircraft was in sight and was never a factor in our climb. ATC then switched us to another frequency without further comment.
Synopsis Air carrier flight crew experienced an airborne conflict and TCAS RA after level-off following the POGGI 5 RNAV departure procedure. Conflicting aircraft was preparing to drop skydivers from the same altitude. ATC issued clearance for a higher altitude.
Time / Day Date : 201512 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : PHL.Tower State Reference : PA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 1000 Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : PHL Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Helicopter Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Ambulance Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass B : PHL Aircraft : 2 ATC / Advisory.Tower : PHL Make Model Name : Small Transport, Low Wing, 2 Recip Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Flight Plan : IFR Flight Phase : Final Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.CIass B : PHL Aircraft : 3 Reference : Z ATC / Advisory.TRACON : PHL Aircraft Operator : Military Make Model Name : Military Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Skydiving Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass B : PHL Person Reference : I Location Of Person. Facility : PHL.Tower
Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Local Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1317220 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Conflict : Airborne Conflict : 4.5 Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 Human Factors Procedure Aircraft Z, was orbiting [nearby] for a practice parachute jump. There was not a TFR in effect for this operation. The schedule I had showed that the jump would happen from 5,500. Aircraft Y, was on final to 27R. Aircraft X had called me 10 south of the airport for Class Bravo transition, north of the 27R final approach course and the [area of orbit]. When Aircraft X was about 3 miles south of Aircraft Y, I issued traffic. Aircraft X replied that he was looking. I asked Aircraft X if he could turn 15 degrees right, as this would point him at Aircraft Y's tail. He replied that he could. I issued the instruction, and then updated the traffic call to Aircraft X. Aircraft X reported the traffic in sight and that he could maintain visual separation. I told Aircraft X to maintain visual separation from and pass behind Aircraft Y. All Of these calls where within about one minute. The 15 degree turn/passing behind Aircraft Y, put Aircraft X as close to going over top of the [orbit area] as he could have been without trying. During this time, I noticed that Aircraft Z was still at 4,500. As Aircraft X was passing the [orbit area], another controller said that he could see the jumpers coming down. Aircraft Z was still at 4,500, and I was given no notice that jumpers where away, or that they would be jumping from any altitude other than 5,500. The only plan effected to separate traffic from the jump zone, was to have all PHL arrivals land 27R, and to have Aircraft Z remain north of 1-95 (which runs between the [orbit area] and the 27R final). Aircraft Z notified the approach controller one pass prior to jumpers way. The approach controller did not notify the tower. While I was expecting to receive notification, the approach controller thought that the TRACON supervisor would notify the tower supervisor. This did not happen. There were not any pre-planned notification procedures. Synopsis
PHL Local Controller reported a loss of separation when a helicopter passed under an aircraft transporting skydivers. The Controller had not been advised that the jumpers had exited the aircraft. Reporter noted a lack of communication between T RACON and Tower supervisors.
Time / Day Date : 201511 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : POC.Airport State Reference : CA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 3500 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC/ Advisory.Tower : poc ATC / Advisory.TRACON : SCT Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Medium Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Skydiving Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : VFR Route Airspace.CIass D : POC Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.TRACON : SCT Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Small Aircraft Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Skydiving Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : VFR Route Airspace.Class E : SCT Aircraft : 3 Reference : Z ATC / Advisory. Tower : POC Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Small Aircraft Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Training
Flight Phase : Initial Approach Airspace.CIass D : POC Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.FaciIity : POC.Tower Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Supervisor / CIC Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1310733 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Conflict : Airborne Conflict : 15.0 Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Executed Go Around / Missed Approach Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airport Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Chart Or Publication Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 For this event, there were two separate Jump Aircraft. Aircraft X with 9 jumpers and Aircraft Y with 1 jumper. POC tower did not receive any calls or advisories from TRACON for either jump. The POC Local Controller kept aircraft out of the path of both jumps. The way that we knew the first jump occurred was from the information provided by the pilot earlier in the week. I was given a briefing item with the proposed jump times. I noticed the time, and thought it was odd that we had not received any notification from TRACON. Local Control looked out the window and observed the jumpers had already left the aircraft. Local Control attempted to call TRACON on the direct line, "jumpers away" but got no answer. For the second jump, TRACON had vectored Aircraft Z inbound on a VFR Practice VOR approach and switched the aircraft to Local Control. The pilot of the second jump aircraft called the tower controller on the frequency and advised Local Control that the jumper was away. Local Control had to break Aircraft Z off the approach and give the pilot instructions to keep them out of the path of the jump. Had Aircraft Z continued the VOR approach as cleared, they would have flown through the path of the second jump while they were
descending to the landing zone. Coordination between SCT and POC should have been conducted per 7110.65 9-7-1. When I realized Aircraft Z was inbound on the VOR approach I should have advised TRACON that I could not accept the aircraft at this time due to Parachute activities. I as the Front Line Manager should have advised SCT Operations Manager that the first coordination was not accomplished. That may have led the TRACON controller to coordinate the second jump and not to have vectored Aircraft Z inbound while Parachute operations were in effect. Synopsis TRACON Controller working parachute jump aircraft did not coordinate the Jumpers leaving the aircraft with the Tower. Reportedly, the jumper's area is in confliction with the VOR Approach. The Tower Controller had to break the aircraft off their approach to resolve a conflict.
Time / Day Date : 201511 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : SAN.Airport State Reference : CA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 14000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : SCT Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Large Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Climb Route In Use.SID : POGGIS Airspace.Class B : SCT Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.TRACON : SCT Make Model Name : Any Unknown or Unlisted Aircraft Manufacturer Mission : Skydiving Airspace.CIass B : SCT Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 186 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 7006 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1308828 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew
Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Conflict : Airborne Conflict Detector.Automation : Aircraft RA Detector.Automation : Aircraft TA Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.FIight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Flight Crew : FLC complied w / Automation / Advisory Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Climbing out on departure passing 13,000 feet I received a TCAS TA then a TCAS RA. TCAS RA began at approximately 14,000 feet and indicated descend. The threat aircraft disappeared from the Nav Display after showing a 400 feet above. I began the evasive maneuver, disconnecting the autopilot and descending, then I acquired the aircraft and skydivers visually. The threat aircraft was moving right to left and was dropping skydivers in front of our flight path. I then initiated a right turn, 30 degrees angle of bank, in order to deconflict with any skydivers that may have been left trailing behind the threat aircraft. We reported the event to TRACON and the controller assured us that the skydivers were not close to us. I disagree, however, as I could see two of the individuals and we had a 140 knot tailwind that would have contributed to the potential for an impact. Synopsis Aircraft climbing on departure responded to a TCAS/RA. Aircraft then sighted the traffic and skydivers which were jumping from the TCAS traffic aircraft. The Controller had not issued traffic. The Controller advised the departing traffic that the Controller did not think they were close.
Time / Day Date : 201511 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Daylight RVR.Single Value : 1000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Make Model Name : Caravan 208B Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Skydiving Flight Phase : Taxi Component Aircraft Component : Brake System Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Experience.Flight Crew. Total : 750 10 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 80 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 110 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1308723 Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Ground Excursion : Taxiway
Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Loss Of Aircraft Control Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : Taxi Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 After picking up passengers for skydiving operations during the final load Of the day, I began to taxi the aircraft as I have done numerous times before, crossing the threshold and turning right onto the taxiway. As I approached the taxiway, I applied right rudder to turn the aircraft and tapped the right brake to assist. I was taxiing at a safe and slow speed as I had done twelve times previously that day. On this occasion, I noticed the aircraft was not turning normally and began to drift left of centerline. At this point, I had already pushed full right rudder and had the brake pressed full down. The aircraft continued to drift further left of centerline as I began to assess the problem more. A skydiver was seated up front in the right seat and I assumed he may have inadvertently had his foot on the pedals, although all passengers are briefed not to touch controls. I informed the passenger to get off the pedals. He said that he was not on them and I quickly glanced down to see that he was not and to check if an object had found its way to the pedals. It was clear. I continually held full right rudder and brake attempting to turn the aircraft to no avail. The aircraft continued drifting left and I felt immediate action was further warranted. The taxiway is narrow and the ground slopes downward toward a fence. There is also a sign next to the fence which is wing height. I observed these objects previously and was aware of them. As the aircraft continued drifting left, while still on taxiway, I immediately put the power to idle and entered full Beta reverse attempting to utilize the prop and engine to slow the aircraft down. However, the momentum of the aircraft at only a few knots taxi speed continued to carry the aircraft off the narrow taxiway. I knew that if I went off the taxiway diagonal onto the slope the aircraft could possibly tip wing down and strike the fence. Therefore, I added left brake and it immediately brought the nose of the aircraft around and perpendicular to the fence. I attempted to use the emergency brakes while depressing both brakes and having the prop in Beta and full reverse. As the aircraft came closer to the fence, I feathered the prop in order to slow it down in case a strike would occur. The aircraft came to a stop approximately 6-8 feet from the fence line and did not strike any object or the ground. I continued with normal shut down procedures and informed passengers to disembark after shutdown. There were no damages or injuries as a result of this. The plane was pushed back onto the taxiway and taxied and the brakes were checked. I was informed by one of the passengers that another pilot stated that he had a similar issue with the brakes "a few days ago." After calling the Chief Pilot, I was informed that both he and another pilot had experienced similar issues with the right brake not working after picking up passenger. The Chief Pilot also stated that he believes it occurred after depressing the brakes for a couple of minutes during passenger pick-up. He informed me that no one had brought this issue to the attention of the mechanic because it had been intermittent and "a couple of months" since happening.
I called the Mechanic and informed him of the intermittent failure. I later met with the Mechanic and spoke with him and he grounded the aircraft. Some considerations from the outcome of this incident are communicating any factors that others pilots experience with all pilots that fly the aircraft. I, being a part-time pilot, fly only once a day during the week. I believe it is paramount that a strong level of communication is present between all pilots that operate the aircraft and conveyed this to the Chief Pilot. I always do brake checks during start-up and after every shutdown and had done them that day. The brakes worked throughout the day and I had not experienced any issues with the brakes previously that day or while flying this aircraft. It is my perception that communication between pilots could improve and I hope to work with the Chief Pilot in doing this. Synopsis Cessna 208B pilot reported directional control problems during taxi.
Time / Day Date : 201508 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZNY.ARTCC State Reference : NY Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 13500 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZNY Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Medium Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Approach Airspace.CIass E : ZNY Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.Center : ZNY Aircraft Operator : FBO Make Model Name : Small Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part.Other Mission : Skydiving Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass E : ZNY Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.FaciIity : ZNY.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Enroute Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control.Time Certified In Pos 1 (yrs) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1290774 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew
Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.FaciIity : ZNY.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Enroute Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos 1 (yrs) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1290777 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Company Policy Narrative: 1 Please note: My area has filed dozens, possibly even over 100 [safety reports] against this aircraft/parachute jump school and nothing has been done since. I was working a very busy combined sector and a parachute jump plane checks onto the sector like he normally does and advises he's going VFR/13500 feet to release parachute jumpers on a VERY busy ZZZ Arrival line. We had aircraft all lined up 15 Miles in trail for at least 175 miles and I told the aircraft for traffic to maintain VFR/9500 feet or below for the jump. The pilot responded and said "NO. I am going to 13500 feet and releasing jumpers." For collision and safety of other aircraft, I told him that jumpers are not authorized at that altitude. In the past, he has released jumpers with no prior warning right in the face of ZZZ regional jet arrivals and commercial aircraft have asked why there are bodies so close to their aircraft. He said he wanted to then terminate his radar service do jumps without talking to ATC. For safety reasons, I kept him on my frequency. I told the pilot multiple times, that jumpers are not authorized at his altitude due to a safety concern and he refused to comply. I started to vector ZZZ arrivals around UNAUTHORIZED PARACHUTE JUMPING to keep everyone safe. THE VFR Parachute jump plane then started arguing with me about FAR's over the frequency and started challenging me by letting me know when the jumpers are going to be released. Once
again, I told him, that parachute jumping is not being authorized at this time at his altitude. I told him to call ZNY for a possible pilot deviation. Due to the IMMEDIATE THREAT of ZZZ arrivals entering New York airspace. 1 am requesting the jump school be temporary shut down and the pilot license be revoked until an investigation can occur. Narrative: 2 We have an aircraft, whose call sign frequently changes, but is known as [Company call sign]. He does jumper activities in the vicinity of ZZZZZZ intersection. He checked on climbing VFR to 13500 feet and I told him where in minutes my next 2 ZZZ inbound aircraft were. The first was about 4 min away and the second was 12. I told him, that after the 2nd aircraft, I had more aircraft close behind. He proceeded to make a very slow climb. He reached altitude when the 2nd aircraft was 4 min from ZZZZZ intersection and told me he would like to let the jumpers go in 2 minutes. I told him I was unable due to the inbound ZZZ and that I had another 2 aircraft behind him. He says 0k. About 2 min pass and he asks where the ZZZ aircraft is. I tell him about 2 min from ZZZZZ intersection, he asks where the one behind him is. I say about 5 min from ZZZZZ intersection. He tells me he will jump after the 2 min away aircraft passes. I call traffic, he asks me again a minute later where he is. I tell him and he gets the aircraft in sight. I ask if he will be able to jump in one minute, he says "confirm." I coordinated the time with approach and then I called [sector] to point out an aircraft, since his descent would be held up for the Aircraft Y. Aircraft X inquires if he should expect ZZZZZ intersection at 10000 feet. I tell him no, that I'm holding him up for Aircraft Y. Aircraft X remarks that this is not a good area for jumper operations. I wait 2 min and ask the Aircraft Y what his status is. He says something like "were coming down." I take that to mean, he has dropped, since he should have already released his jumpers, and that he is starting his descent. I don't observe him descending, so I ask if he is descending or staying at 13500 feet. He says he staying at 13500 feet. I tell him that he should have told me that, since I was holding up my aircraft. I turn to Aircraft X and tell him to descend and be level in 2 min or less. Aircraft X is over ZZZZZ intersection, Aircraft Y is over him at ZZZZZ intersection at 13500 feet and announces that he dropped the jumpers and would like to begin descent. I was surprised and asked if he just dropped them, since he was supposed to have done so minutes ago. He says he did and wants to start his descent. I tell him that he can't because he's still over the Aircraft X. I switch Aircraft X to approach and he tells me that the jumpers were dropped close to him and that it was unsafe. I tell him that he should file a report, and he said that he would. Aircraft Y once again asks me to start his descent and I say he is now clear of Aircraft X and he can descend. This is a recurring issue with this jumper aircraft. He frequently does not listen to ATC instructions, is misleading and difficult to work with. We could either change the ZZZ arrival to go over ZZZ VOR and that would keep them away from the jump site or we have to put restrictions in for this jumper. I don't think it is a safe site for the jumping at all, but if it is to continue, he needs to be made to follow our instructions and to be clear and accurate in his expression on what his intentions are and how long it will take for him to accomplish his tasks. Telling me that he can do the jumps in I minute and then releasing them 3 or 4 mins later, is not only misleading, it is dangerous. The pilot of the arriving aircraft called after landing and said he saw the jumpers about 400ft from his aircraft. This is dangerous to not only the jet aircraft, carrying 100's of passengers, but the jumpers themselves, who have no idea the dangerous situation the pilot is putting them in. Actions need to be taken before something traumatic and irreversible happens. Synopsis
ZNY Center Controller reported of a skydiving aircraft that ignored ATC instructions, argued with controllers on frequency, and gave misleading information to have his requests approved.
Time / Day Date : 201508 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZNY.ARTCC State Reference : NY Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 12500 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZNY Aircraft Operator : FBO Make Model Name : Any Unknown or Unlisted Aircraft Manufacturer Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part.Other Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Skydiving Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass E : ZNY Person Reference : I Location Of Person.FaciIity : ZNY.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Enroute Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control.Time Certified In Pos 1 (yrs) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1287318 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Airborne Conflict : 22 Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Company Policy Narrative: 1 Aircraft X reports on frequency for parachute jump activities. Aircraft X advises climbing to 13,500 feet. Controller advise to maintain 12,500 feet and asks how long until ready at that altitude. Controller advises of a delay due to traffic, advises that it may be extensive, and advises other altitude available. Aircraft X advises that he will wait for traffic. Aircraft X calls on frequency and says according to his stop watch etc. he wants to drop. Controller advises 10 minutes till clear of traffic. Aircraft X calls telling controller he's dropping anyway and tells controller to move, vector or hold traffic. Aircraft X is blocking frequency and for at least the 6th time in as many weeks gets into a verbal exchange on the frequency with the controller. Aircraft X is told to "maintain radio silence" in order to regain control of the frequency. Please do something about this before it becomes a very serious issue. Synopsis VFR aircraft requested an altitude to drop parachute jumpers. Controller restricted the aircraft 1,000 feet below its requested altitude and advises there will be a delay for approval for jumpers due to traffic. VFR aircraft releases parachute jumpers anyway and advises Controller to move traffic away from the jump area.
Time / Day Date : 201508 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZAU.ARTCC State Reference : IL Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 12000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Night Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZAU Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : MD-80 Series (DC-9-80) Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Climb Route In Use : Vectors Airspace.Class E : ZAU Aircraft : 2 ATC / Advisory Center : ZAU Aircraft Operator : FBO Make Model Name : Caravan 208B Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Skydiving Flight Phase : Descent Airspace.CIass E : ZAU Person Reference : I Location Of Person.FaciIity : ZAU.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Supervisor / CIC Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control.Time Certified In Pos 1 (yrs) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1285018 Human Factors : Training / Qualification Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events : 18
Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Detector.Automation : Aircraft RA Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 Aircraft Y was a parachute aircraft that was shipped to us out of 10,000 feet. The aircraft climbed to 14,500 feet. Aircraft X was climbing southbound in close proximity to the jump aircraft. The controller advised Aircraft Y of Aircraft X, and the pilot responded they had just released the jumpers. Aircraft X checked on climbing to 12,000 feet. The controller advised Aircraft X of the parachute aircraft. Aircraft X advised the controller they were responding to a TCAS resolution and descending. Aircraft X descended to 10,500 feet. Aircraft Y was at 11,500 feet and descending. This is not the first instance of [the approach facility] running aircraft in close proximity to parachute aircraft that they have shipped to us. This has happened multiple times at the [approach facility] and [approach facility] airports. We have contacted either the Front Line Manager or CIC on duty and discussed the situation with them. They continue to run aircraft near or directly under the parachute aircraft. Educate the [approach facility] controllers of the hazard this poses. This situation could potentially lead to a fatality of some kind. [A] jumper could be killed if they hit a plane, or the plane could take damage and kill the occupants. Set up a zone around the parachute operator. When the aircraft is flying [approach facility] is not allowed to put aircraft in this airspace. Synopsis Aircraft Y, a VFR parachute aircraft, was descending out of 11,500 feet. Aircraft X, an air carrier, was below Aircraft Y while climbing on a converging heading. Aircraft X received a TCAS/RA on Aircraft Y and responded accordingly. Aircraft Y released parachutists in the immediate vicinity of the Aircraft X's departure route.
Time / Day Date : 201507 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZNY.ARTCC State Reference : NY Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 12000 Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZNY Aircraft Operator : FBO Make Model Name : Small Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Skydiving Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : None Airspace.CIass E : ZNY Person Reference : I Location Of Person.FaciIity : ZNY.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Enroute Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1280108 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Confusion Communication Breakdown.Party1 : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Other Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Air Traffic Control : Separated Traffic Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Aircraft X is a parachute operations aircraft. This aircraft operates in the close vicinity Of the LGA MILTON FOUR Arrival in the area of BELJTY (FIX). The request of the operator and PIC is to climb to 13500 and operate the jump ops. The LGA arrivals cross BEIJTY at 10000. This is a conflict of airspace as the jump ops and the arrivals cannot operate at the same time. ZNY has had countless conversations with the PIC and owner on the need of an agreed to Letter of Agreement (LOA). We have met to make this happen. Soon after the ZNY Facility created a LOA based on our conversations. There has not been an agreement to date. Not because of the need to change information in the LOA but more so the vocal reluctance on [the owner] to sign and agree to a LOA. This event the issue was the PIC did not notify ATC that all the jumpers did not jump when the PIC stated jumpers away. He requested to hold at 12000 for a second. This turned into almost two minutes. At this time the LGA arrivals were stuck high and multiple coordination was needed to be done based on the lack of communication about the jumpers. This area has too much volume to allow a safe operation without clear and precise communication. There are many documented times that this is an unsafe location to have this operation above 9500. Terminate operations above 9500. Synopsis ZNY Controller reports of a skydiving operation in close proximity to an arrival route into LGA. Controller states aircraft pilot did not advise when all jumpers where out. The Controller reports that IFR aircraft were stopped at altitudes to keep them away from the jumpers and this made them high on the approach.
Time / Day Date : 201507 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : MWH.Airport State Reference : WA Relative Position. Distance. Nautical Miles : 38 Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 5500 Environment Weather Elements / Visibility : Turbulence Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : 10 Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 12000 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZSE ATC / Advisory.Tower : MWH Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Skylane 182/RG Turbo Skylane/RG Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Direct Airspace.CIass E : ZSE Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory. Tower : MWH Make Model Name : Any Unknown or Unlisted Aircraft Manufacturer Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Skydiving Flight Phase : Climb Airspace.CIass E : ZSE Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Private Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 280 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 280 : 20
ASRS Report Number Accession Number : Human Factors : Other / Unknown Events Anomaly.Conflict : NMAC Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.Horizontal : 150 Miss Distance.Vertical : 30 When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments 1278496 Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Ambiguous Narrative: 1 I was flying to AL W, Walla Walla [using] VFR Flight Following. I was flying 5 miles west of a direct line course, there is a lot of sky diving in that area east of Ritzville, Washington cruising at 5,500 feet. Over Ritzville I was handed off form Grant County to Seattle Center 10 miles sooner than in any time in the past. I fly this route often. Contacted Seattle and told them I was going to climb to 7,500 feet for smother air, they acknowledged. Started a slow climb which dropped my air speed to 100 and had climbed maybe 100 feet. With nose high I noticed the sky diving plane climbing and had just passed in front of me headed East and I am headed South. It would have been a lot closer if I had stayed on same course or had a slower climb. No warning from Grant County Before handing me off and no warning from Seattle when I contacted them, approximately 2 miles due south of Ritzville. There were vehicles and a plane parked at the sky diving club and always notified when they are in the air and that is why I fly around Ritzville to try to stay out of their area. Synopsis A C182 pilot experiences a NMAC with a skydiving aircraft at 5,500 feet over Ritzville, Washington. VFR flight following with Seattle Center was in use but no traffic call was issued.
Time / Day Date : 201507 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZZZ.TRACON State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 5000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Make Model Name : Small Aircraft, High Wing, 1 Eng, Retractable Gear Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Flight Plan : IFR Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Vectors Airspace.CIass B : ZZZ Aircraft : 2 ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : FBO Make Model Name : Small Aircraft, High Wing, I Eng, Retractable Gear Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Skydiving Flight Phase : Climb Airspace.CIass B : ZZZ Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Facility : ZZZ.TRACON Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Instructor Function.Air Traffic Control : Approach Function.Air Traffic Control : Departure Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control.Time Certified In Pos 1 (mon) . • 43 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1277443 Human Human Human Human Human Factors : Distraction Situational Awareness Factors : : Training / Qualification Factors Communication Breakdown Factors : Workload Factors :
Communication Breakdown.PartyI . • ATC Communication Breakdown. Party2 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly.Deviation - Track / Heading : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Result.Air Traffic Control : Separated Traffic Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I was training a developmental whom I have never trained before in the radar room. Seeing that I have never trained them, I was unaware of their ability and technique. Aircraft X departed an airport in the southern portion of our airspace, flying northbound. The developmental put the aircraft on a 340 heading to keep the aircraft clear of the departure area. Aircraft Y departed [a nearby airport] VFR to perform sky dive operations above the Bravo airspace. As Aircraft X neared Aircraft Y, Aircraft Y was in a westbound heading, climbing away from Aircraft X. Letting the situation go as far as I saw it could without stepping in, I took over the frequency and advised Aircraft Y to continue a VFR climb to the West and called the traffic (at this time they were about 2 NM separated and divergence was also maintained). I received no read back from Aircraft Y and called to them again telling to them fly westbound. After no response again, I called the traffic to Aircraft X. At this time, Aircraft Y had continued their counterclockwise turn and ended up closing in on Aircraft X. Aircraft X called the traffic and I advised him to maintain visual separation. Satellite should have been split out during this session. There was an airshow just north of our airspace which added greatly to the complexity, especially to a developmental who has had just a couple of hours of satellite training. Also at this trainee's stage in training, satellite should only be trained stand alone. Parachute operations should not be occurring in Bravo airspace, especially mere miles into the departure area of a level 9 airport. I shouldn't have been training the individual. I had been out of work on [personal leave]. I came in expecting to maintain currency and instead was not only given a 9 hour turnaround, but was instructed to train a development whom I have had no experience with. The Supervisor/CIC had been on position for approximately 4 hours at the time of the event due to lack of CIC's in the facility. Had they had a non-fatigued mind, they would have had the opportunity to aid in preventing the event. Due to lack of CIC's in the facility, I have a problem maintaining currency. The majority of
the time I am in the operations I am sitting 'in charge,' and due to this have lost proficiency. Synopsis TRACON Controller reports of a loss of separation between two aircraft. Controller was training a Developmental that he was unfamiliar with and let the situation go too far. Instructor took over but aircraft did not respond timely.
Time / Day Date : 201507 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZNY.ARTCC State Reference : NY Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 13000 Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZNY Aircraft Operator : FBO Make Model Name : Any Unknown or Unlisted Aircraft Manufacturer Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Skydiving Flight Phase : Descent Airspace.CIass E : ZNY Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory Center : ZNY Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Medium Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Descent Airspace.CIass E : ZNY Person Reference : I Location Of Person.FaciIity : ZNY.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Enroute Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control.Time Certified In Pos 1 (yrs) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1276120 Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Human Factors : Distraction : Situational Awareness Human Factors Confusion Human Factors :
Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown. Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Detector.Automation : Air Traffic Control Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 Shortly after taking the R92 position an aircraft who calls themselves as Aircraft X said they were two minutes from jumpers away, at around that time I advised Aircraft X of an Aircraft Y to the east of the field headed west bound at 7 thousand working [with] Allentown approach. The pilot acknowledged but still decided to release his jumpers, a move that I considered unsafe. The pilot then advised he would stay to the north and begin his descent. He was asked to report leaving 10 thousand. The pilot turned to the south and descended fast enough that En Route Automation Modernization (ERAM) showed an exceptional vertical rate readout for MODE C. Aircraft X's target came very close to and may have merged with the Aircraft Y flight's target. I tried to call traffic but got no response from Aircraft X. After Aircraft X was through six thousand he came up on frequency asking if he should contact Allentown. I asked why he wasn't responding to traffic calls and he said he was coordinating with UNICOM at the time. After many unsafe occurrences with this operator there still hasn't been an LOA signed with them. Synopsis A New York Center (ZNY) Controller reports of an aircraft that drops sky divers while conflicting traffic for it is inbound to an airport in close proximity. The Controller thinks this operation is not safe. The pilot was not on frequency all Of the time and was Off coordinating on UNICOM.
Time / Day Date : 201506 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZZZ.TRACON State Reference : US Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : FBO Make Model Name : Small Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Skydiving Flight Phase : Climb Route In Use : Vectors Airspace.CIass E : ZZZ Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Medium Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turboprop Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Descent Route In Use.STAR : ZZZ Airspace.CIass E : ZZZ Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Facility : ZZZ.TRACON Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Departure Function.Air Traffic Control : Approach Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control.Time Certified In Pos 1 (mon) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1269826 Human Factors : Troubleshooting Human Factors : Communication Breakdown
Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Distraction Communication Breakdown.Party1 : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Returned To Clearance Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Result.Air Traffic Control : Separated Traffic Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 Company Policy Human Factors Procedure I was working Sector x. Aircraft X called me for traffic advisories. Aircraft Y was descending on the arrival. TRACON has a LOA with Aircraft X operations for skydiving activity in the vicinity of ZZZ. Aircraft X was in a spiraling climb to FL 135, Aircraft Y was descending via the STAR. ZZZ and the STAR are in close proximity (roughly 2 miles apart). I Issued traffic to both aircraft when they were 5 miles apart. Aircraft X began climing northwest bound, in direct conflict with Aircraft Y, both laterally and vertically. I issued a turn to Aircraft X away from the traffic. Aircraft X questioned the turn on 2 different transmissions before they finally turned away from traffic on the 3rd transmission. Once the traffic was separated, I told Aircraft X to resume own navigation and they informed me that they had to realign for the jump and had a question when I was able to answer. Aircraft X asked if there had been a change to our LOA with them precluding them from jumping 0.5 miles West of ZZZ. They asked me this twice because the 1st transmission was garbled. The second transmission carried a lot more sarcasm. I told Aircraft X that the LOA had not been changed or altered and that "l am not going to let two airplanes come together because of a piece of paper. " Aircraft X changed to advisories and once they were on the ground, the owner personally called the Tracon. The owner asked the Controller in Charge (CIC) if I was new to the facility and the CIC responed "He's been here awhile". The owner went on to say the operation was ridiculous several times and that I needed to be "Tuned-up". I'm not sure what the owner meant personally by "Tuned-up", but where I am from that means assaulted physically. We have had many issues with this company in the past. The general consensus is that this company thinks they own the airspace because the have an LOA. One of this companies slogans [implies jumping around jets], a practice that they seem to take serious enough to get close to other airplanes. I recommend that this company either move to an airport away from the main arrival route or get used to turning for traffic. It's
utterly ridiculous that an aircraft operator or pilot for that matter is so upset about turning for conflicting traffic. Synopsis Controller reports of a VFR pilot who didn't initially turn as instructed away from another aircraft that was IFR. Pilot took turn and then questioned Controller as to why they had to turn. Controller advised it was for traffic. Pilot questioned if something had changed to the LOA. Controller advised no, they were turned for traffic. Company owner called T RACON and wanted the Controller "tuned up."
Time / Day Date : 201505 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 2000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC/ Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : FBO Make Model Name : King Air C90 E90 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Skydiving Flight Phase : Initial Climb Route In Use : None Airspace.CIass E : ZZZ Component Aircraft Component : Engine Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : FBO Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 1380 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 230 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 25 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1267986 Events
Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Smoke / Fire / Fumes / Odor Detector. Person : Passenger Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Inflight Shutdown Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 I was piloting a King Air A90 during skydive operations. I was single pilot. Preflight of the aircraft was normal and oil on both engines ran at I quart indicated cold. The before takeoff checklist/run up was complete as per the checklist. On the 5th load of the day after departing and while climbing out I experienced the smell of smoke in the cockpit at approximately 2000 feet. I was alerted by several of the skydive instructors that fire/smoke was coming from the right side. I confirmed the evidence smoke but no fire was present and it appeared to be outside the aircraft emanating from the right engine nacelle. I was unable to determine if the smell was electrical or petroleum based but I decided to shut down the right engine as per the memory items and return to the airport for landing. After the engine was shut I could no longer see evidence of smoke. After alerting approach that that I was returning to land due to a possible engine fire I changed frequency to CTAF. I positioned myself for final approach, and lowered the gear handle, but was unable to obtain 3 green. I saw the breaker for the landing gear was popped and reset the breaker and attempted to lower the gear again unsuccessfully. I aborted the approach. Smoke began to fill the cockpit again. I discussed the situation with the senior jump instructor and chose to climb the aircraft to 3000-3500 feet and allow the skydivers to exit above the minimum safe jump altitude. While climbing I completed the engine shutdown and secure checklist and asked the skydiver at the door to look to visually observe the gear and was informed the gear was half down at varying degrees. After completion of the engine shutdown checklist no further smoke was visible or could be smelled. Further, with the rear exit door open most of the smoke had vented from the cabin. I had the jumpers brief their exit and I performed the jump run. All jumpers exited the aircraft successfully without incident. After the jumpers exited I was able to control and climb the aircraft and began working the emergency gear down checklist. I was unable to successfully engage the clutch as per the procedure and felt no resistance on the manual gear handle as it was swung and asked for another King Air pilot to work the checklist over the radio. During this time several flight instruments failed. While loitering [in] the area I transferred fuel from the left wing to the left nacelle tank. After all options were exhausted and approximately 30 minutes of fuel remaining I briefed to myself a gear up landing and I executed the landing. The landing gear buckled upon landing but the aircraft remained on the runway and slid to a stop. I quickly performed the emergency shutdown memory items and evacuated. I was uninjured and learned all jumpers were uninjured.
Synopsis BE-65 pilot reported shutting down right engine when smoke was spotted coming from the nacelle. He was unable to fully extend the landing gear and the gear collapsed on landing.
Time / Day Date : 201505 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Relative Position. Distance. Nautical Miles • 4 Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 400 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : 12 Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 9000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Corporate Make Model Name : Medium Transport, High Wing, 2 Turboprop Eng Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Skydiving Flight Phase : Initial Climb Route In Use : None Airspace.CIass C : ZZZ Airspace.CIass E : ZZZ Airspace.Class G : ZZZ Component Aircraft Component : Turbine Engine Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Failed Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Contracted Service Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 4200 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 250 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 200 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1265851 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Training / Qualification
Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result. Flight Crew : Diverted Result.Flight Crew : Landed As Precaution Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 I was flying as the first officer of Aircraft X being used on contract by the US Military to conduct parachute operations inside of Restricted airspace. We had 14 military free fall jumpers on board and were taking off from a 3,000 feet unimproved landing strip. We had full inboard fuel tanks. Upon rotation, we experienced a power-plant failure of the left engine at approximately 200 feet. We performed emergency action procedures for a power-plant failure after VI and attempted to climb to a safe altitude to release jumpers. The aircraft would not climb above 1,000 feet AGL so we diverted to the closest airstrip, ZZZ, which has a 3,200 feet paved runway and was three miles away. Upon landing, braking action was extremely poor and it was extremely difficult to maintain directional control. On taxi back, we experienced a right brake fire that was most likely caused by a leaking hydraulic line dripping fluid onto hot brakes. Passengers were evacuated on the ramp and fire was extinguished with on site fire fighting equipment by myself and the captain. The most likely cause of the engine failure was a Flight Control Unit (FCU) failure and the brake fire because of heavy braking with poorly maintained brakes and a shorter than desired runway available. In a post event debrief, the captain and I reworked the numbers on our useful load for conditions and determined that we had not added enough safety factor into our runway analysis. If we had properly accounted for density altitudes and current conditions, the aircraft would have had better single engine performance and we could have diverted to a longer and more appropriate runway for the situation. There were no injuries to any personnel. We did not declare an emergency during the event because of the the speed at which events happened and the attention needed to safely fly the airplane to landing. Synopsis Twin engine, high wing turboprop First Officer reported losing an engine shortly after takeoff. Flight diverted to a nearby airfield where a safe landing was made.
Time / Day Date : 201504 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZLA.ARTCC State Reference : CA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 12600 Environment Light : Night Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZLA Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Large Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Climb Airspace.CIass B : SAN Airspace.CIass E : ZLA Aircraft : 2 ATC / Advisory.TRACON : SCT Make Model Name : Any Unknown or Unlisted Aircraft Manufacturer Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Mission : Skydiving Flight Phase.Other Person Reference : I Location Of Person.FaciIity : ZLA.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Enroute Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1255091 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Conflict : NMAC : 1.5
Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Returned To Clearance Result.FIight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 Aircraft Human Factors Procedure Aircraft X departed SAN and was shipped to LA Center sector 9 climbing out of approximately 8,000. About 5 miles east of PGY, aircraft X said "Center we have an aircraft passing off our left side 500 feet below us." At the time of the incident aircraft X was in Southern California (SOCAL) Approach control's, south bay sector's, airspace, which they control 140 and below. The aircraft that was an NMAC with aircraft X was squawking discrete code [numbers removed], which is known to sector 9 controllers to be an aircraft conducting parachute operations in SOCAL approach control's airspace. TCAS, collision alarm, nor any other safety preventative measure went off to avoid this incident and the only thing standing between these two aircraft and a mid-air collision were the air traffic controller's involved. Considering it was a known aircraft in the transferring controller's area of jurisdiction and that SOCAL Approach is able to climb above their airspace so that they can provide safe passage to the aircraft operating in the congested airspace around the San Diego/Tijuana area, I feel like the SOCAL Approach controller should not have switched aircraft X to my frequency until that aircraft was clear of all aircraft that were potentially in conflict with aircraft X. There is more than one thing that should be done to prevent an event like this from happening again: I.) The CA suppression should be lifted from En Route Automation Modernization (ERAM)s probing in SOCAL Approach control airspace to bring attention to a developing safety event like this one. 2.) As per FAA order 7110.65, the transferring controller shall not change an aircraft to the receiving controller's frequency until all potential conflicts for that aircraft are resolved. 3.) Air traffic controllers should drop this portentous attitude of VFR aircraft not being their responsibility to provide air traffic service to, and should instead consider them for what they are; taxpayer's that pay them a lot of money to maintain the integrity and safety of all aircraft operating within the National Airspace System (NAS). Synopsis ZLA Controller explains that an aircraft reported an aircraft 500 feet below them. The area and altitude of the aircraft was in SCT airspace and also an area Of known parachuting. The aircraft was on a discreet code indicating its involvement. The ZLA Controller advised that SCT should have issued traffic to the aircraft or kept the aircraft until the conflict was no longer a factor.
Time / Day Date : 201503 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 700 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 12000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : FBO 10 Make Model Name : Skylane 182/RG Turbo Skylane/RG Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Skydiving Flight Phase : Landing Route In Use : None Airspace.CIass G : ZZZ Component Aircraft Component : Reciprocating Engine Assembly Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : FBO Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 372 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 21 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 25 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1249161 Human Factors : Training / Qualification Human Factors : Other / Unknown Human Factors : Human-Machine Interface
Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Diverted Result. Flight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Result.FIight Crew : Executed Go Around / Missed Approach Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I was conducting normally scheduled skydiving operations in a CE-182 "D" model with numerous modifications including a higher power engine, skydiving door and wingtip extensions. My initial preflight showed 20 gallons of fuel on board. The incident occurred on the second jump run of the day as I returned to the airport. I returned to the pattern too high and was unable to safely descend to the runway. I initiated a go-around approximately halfway down the runway at 500 feet to 600 feet AGL. As I added power and pitched up the engine sputtered and quit. The propeller continued to windmill. I proceeded to the plowed wheat field south of the runway and conducted a power off soft field landing. Shortly after touchdown the engine restarted. I brought the aircraft to a stop and secured the engine. Post landing inspection of the aircraft and touchdown path revealed no damage. The aircraft was fueled and an engine run conducted prior to continued operations. The cause of the incident was poor preflight fuel planning. I underestimated the fuel burn for each set of skydivers and did not account for the amount of unusable fuel in the tanks. Secondary to this was the poor entry to the traffic pattern that ultimately required a go- around to be initiated. Future skydiving operations will start with no less than 40 gallons of fuel on board the aircraft and refueling will be conducted following every 3rd jump run. The loss of power at low altitude caused a strong initial adrenaline reaction that caused me to not secure the engine prior to touchdown, or conduct substantial emergency procedures beyond a brief "mayday" call over the CTAF. Fortunately the restart of the engine due to my inaction helped prevent damage during the landing sequence. My lack of overall familiarity with the emergency procedures for the aircraft prevented me from overcoming the adrenaline rush associated with the low altitude event. Additionally I exhibited hazardous attitudes in the form of "Macho" and "Invulnerable" when I did not add fuel prior to the start of operations. Synopsis C182 pilot experiences engine failure during a go-around, after a long steep descent from a jump run. The pilot landed in emergency condition on a field and the engine restarted just after touch down. Fuel starvation was thought to be the cause for the engine quitting and restarting shortly after.
Time / Day Date : 201501 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZDC.ARTCC State Reference : VA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 12000 Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZDC Make Model Name : Light Transport, High Wing, 2 Turboprop Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Tactical Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.Class E : ZDC Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.Center : ZDC Make Model Name : Small Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Skydiving Flight Phase : Climb Airspace.CIass E : ZDC Person Reference : I Location Of Person.FaciIity : ZDC.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Enroute Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1235651 Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Human Factors : Troubleshooting : Workload Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors Communication Breakdown.Party1 : ATC Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Communication
Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 Aircraft Human Factors Procedure Aircraft X was orbiting over Maxton Airport IFR at 12,000. He had been there before and I was briefed by the controller that I relieved that he would be there for another 5 hours. There was no paperwork in the area detailing this flight or pilots intentions. FAY approach called with information. "Yeah, that Aircraft Y is still doing parachute drops over Maxton, code [deleted], climbing to 13,500." I replied, "Well you know I have a twelve thousand foot aircraft orbiting in that area?" At this time I observed a limited VFR tag climbing out of about 10,700 north of Aircraft X. Liberty owns 11,000 and above, FAY owns 10,000 and below. FAY replied "Yeah, can you advise him of our traffic and vector your guy away?" I said "NO, he's on a mission and he's orbiting there. I'll see if he can take a turn, I have no idea what he's doing." "I have parachute drops, you know about our guys?" FAY replied. "I don't know anything about your parachute drops" I told him. "So where exactly is he going to do it, right where Aircraft X is?" I did not get a reply. I hung up, waited for another aircraft to finish checking in and then called the VFR traffic to Aircraft X. "Traffic 12 0'clock, 2 miles southeast bound, 11,300, climbing VFR, parachute drops." The jump aircraft was now in my airspace and still VFR. Aircraft X did not have the traffic in sight and said that he was "Heading west to de-conflict. " Once separated, I asked Aircraft X if he was aware of the jump operations. He did and advised that he had been on UNICOM with the jump aircraft to avoid each other. I asked Aircraft X if he had responded to a TCAS advisory when making his turn and he said, "yes", I notified the FLM (Front Line Manager) immediately. Minutes later I received a call from a different FAY controller who advised that the jumpers would stay at 11,500 instead of climbing to 13,500. A much better idea. After being relieved I listened to the tape at the Operations Manager desk and spoke briefly to the Operations Manager about the situation. Later, the Operations Manager advised me that he spoke to the pilot of Aircraft X and that paperwork for the mission had been filed with Fayetteville approach only. Aircraft X would fly missions at different altitudes but mainly 12,000 feet. That's Liberty's airspace, not approach control. The Aircraft X pilot was also going to send over a mission packet for ZDC. The approach controller knew there was an aircraft at 12,000 in the area of the airport, they had climbed him up there and were still monitoring him. The parachute drop aircraft should have been handed off to Liberty prior to entering Liberty's airspace so that one
controller could coordinate with both aircraft to avoid a conflict. Also, moving an IFR aircraft to make way for a VFR is not sound practice. There was no information available at ZDC for Aircraft X flight. The controllers had no idea what the aircraft was doing and what the parameters of the operation were. In fact, Aircraft X's flight plan; as it was received from FAY approach, did not indicate any delay. It was the controller prior to me that had to question the pilot and then update the flight plan to show a 5 hour delay. FAY should have recognized that the aircraft operation was going to be in ZDC airspace and made sure that the paperwork had been forwarded. In addition, our FLMs should have taken the initiative several days ago when the flights first began and requested paperwork on the Aircraft X flight. It is becoming more common to have special military flights with no prior warning or paperwork. If our FLMs would have requested more information several days ago, we could have already had procedures in place to deal with the conflicting parachute jumps. Synopsis ZDC Controller reports about confusion with an aircraft in holding and a skydiving aircraft that wanted to drop above the holding aircraft. The pilots of the two aircraft communicated with each other and the skydiving aircraft stayed below the holding aircraft.
Time / Day Date : 201501 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : P50.TRACON State Reference : AZ Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 5000 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : P50 Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Small Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Skydiving Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.Class B : PHX Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory. Tower : PHX ATC / Advisory.TRACON : P50 Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Large Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Climb Route In Use : Vectors Airspace.Class B : PHX Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Facility : P50.TRACON Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Traffic Management Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos 1 (mon) : 12 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1229025 Human Human Human Human Human Communication Breakdown Factors : : Confusion Factors Factors : Situational Awareness Factors : Time Pressure Factors : Distraction
Communication Breakdown.PartyI . • ATC Communication Breakdown. Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 I was working the TMC position. The arrival coordinator position was also combined to me and I was handling those duties during this period. I spoke with a coordinator for Aircraft X via telephone. During this time we discussed his request for a parachute simulation just east of PHX. My understanding was this was going to be a simulation run with three passes dropping streamers. I advised due to departure traffic there may be a delay for his requested time but felt confident I could work out this request within our facility and PHX Tower. Aircraft X was airborne around the coordinated time. We held the Aircraft X aircraft for approximately 30 minutes due to departure traffic off of PHX. I coordinated with the PHX TMC to stop departures to allow for Aircraft X to make his run. Aircraft X advised our controller he would only need one run which worked out better for both P50 and PHX. After departures were stopped Aircraft X started his run. Once over the target Aircraft X advised his run was complete and would RTB [Return To Base]. Once Aircraft X was no longer in the departure corridor I released departures at PHX. Shortly after this, Aircraft Y started his roll and climb out. Tower called and advised Aircraft Y was making an immediate right turn to avoid parachute jumpers just east of Phoenix. I acknowledged this and advised the south departure controller. I also advised the FLM at this time. These jumps should be coordinated well in advance. Going forward I will need to verify that there are or are not jumpers during coordination. Synopsis P50 TMC describes a situation where an aircraft is supposed to make three runs over a target, then when airborne changes its plan and drops skydivers unknown to ATC. Departing traffic has to deviate around falling skydivers.
Time / Day Date : 201412 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 9000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility • Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 20000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : King Air C90 E90 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Skydiving Flight Phase : Climb Route In Use : Direct Airspace.CIass E : ZZZ Component 10 Aircraft Component : Gear Lever/SeIector Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Improperly Operated Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 5400 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 200 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 200 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1227358
Human Factors : Other / Unknown Human Factors : Human-Machine Interface Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Gear Up Landing Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Inflight Shutdown Result.FIight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Result.Aircraft : Aircraft Damaged Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Primary Problem : Ambiguous Narrative: 1 I was flying skydivers and the plane had been performing fine all day until the left engine quit on climb out through about 9,000 feet MSL. When the engine quit it was sudden, complete and without any indication on the gauges beforehand. I handled the emergency maintaining airspeed, identifying, verifying and eventually feathering the left side and securing it as per the engine failure in flight checklist. The passengers, (some Of which were new to light aircraft and there for their first skydive) and even some of the more seasoned skydivers were panicking and considering bailing out before I got them back to the drop zone, so I had to calm them down and assure them it would be a relatively normal drop and they would be placed over their normal waypoint (which is directly over the airport). With everyone calmed, I proceeded. I flew them there single engine, everyone got out safely in an orderly fashion and I proceeded to come in for landing. After checking the weather the wind slightly favored the shorter runway so initially I set up for that but changed my mind to use the longer wider runway just in case. The wind was near calm and either runway had plenty of room, the pattern was empty and I made all CTAF calls. The yaw was very strong on power up to arcle for the longer runway and hand flying the plane took my attention off verifying the gear was down. In addition to the distraction from the engine failure and caring for the panicked passengers, the huge open door and loud buffeting made it impossible to hear the gear horn. Not knowing why the engine failed out of the blue I also had a considerable fear the engine may catch fire, even though there was no smoke and it was secured. I've never had a turbine engine fail and didn't know exactly what to expect, I just knew I needed to get on the ground, back to safety and get myself out of the aircraft. That was all nagging in the back of my mind as I flew in single engine. The lack of drag from the gear not being down (I was so shaken up I thought I had already lowered it and that the checklist was complete) didn't illicit a mental response for me because the feathered prop sheds so much drag I had mentally compartmentalized my lack of drag as being attributed to that. I came in and landed gear up, on the centerline. There was no time for a go around by the time I noticed I was lower than normal, the engine takes awhile to spool to a usable power setting from idle and by that time the plane was already on the ground. The plane came to a stop, I fully secured it before exit and airport ops was there immediately to assist. A few things could have been done to prevent this outcome - primarily a re-verification of checklist completion (I had run them
completely, or so I thought) and of course verification the gear was down by checking the gear lights. I was so scared there was going to be an inflight fire that unfortunately I became distracted from these key things and let the situation get the best of me. I'm extremely glad nobody was hurt, but wish I would have been able to hear the gear horn and would have gone around, done it right, and not have had to file this form in the first place. Synopsis BE90 pilot transporting skydivers experiences an engine failure at 9,000 feet. The engine is shut down and the skydivers are allowed to jump over their normal drop point. Upon returning to the airport the gear is forgotten and a gear up landing ensues.
Time / Day Date : 201411 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 200 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : King Air C90 E90 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Skydiving Flight Phase : Takeoff Route In Use : None Airspace.CIass G : ZZZ Aircraft : 2 ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Sail Plane Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Landing Route In Use : None Airspace.CIass G : ZZZ Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Experience.Flight Crew. Total : 1100 10
Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 75 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 30 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1221689 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly Conflict : Airborne Conflict Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.Horizontal : 2500 Miss Distance.Vertical : O Were Passengers Involved In Event : N When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airport Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Ambiguous Narrative: 1 I was operating a skydive jump aircraft from a non-towered airport. The airport has two runways: [laid out in V-shape]. For our operations we regularly takeoff RWY 12 and land RWY 30. The winds were from the north at 5-10 knots and traffic was mostly using RWY 30 or occasionally RWY 05. I had been coordinating our departures on RWY 12 with the frequent glider and glider towing operations using RWY 30, as we regularly do on busy weekends. I announced on CT AF that we were holding short of RWY 12 and looked for traffic in pattern. A glider reported it was downwind for RWY 30 and I thought it told me that we had time to depart ahead Of them. I then announced that we were departing RWY 12 straight out. As we were rolling on departure the glider announced it was turning base for RWY 30. I reported we were rolling on RWY 12 and saw the glider turning base. The glider then said it was going to switch to RWY 23, which is lined up with the base leg of RWY 30. I climbed above the glider's approach to RWY 23 and the glider passed about 1/2 mile off our left side. I thanked the glider for making the adjustment and continued operations without any more incidents. I believe the incident is the result Of the high volume of flight training, glider operations, and high-performance aircraft operation at this non-towered airport. I also think if the glider had announced in position when I first reported holding short of RWY 12 it would have given me more time to visually acquire the traffic. The glider also should not have turned base after I announced we were departing on RWY 12. I also need to ensure I visually acquire any traffic in the pattern before departing to verify there will be sufficient spacing and confirm that any traffic in the pattern is aware if we are departing ahead of their arrival. Synopsis A conflict resulted when a King Air C90 departing Runway 12 and an arriving sailplane on Runway 30 failed to co-ordinate their operations. The sailplane altered its arrival runway to facilitate separation.
Time / Day Date : 201411 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZAB.ARTCC State Reference : NM Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 10000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZAB Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use.STAR : PINNGI Airspace.CIass E : ZAB Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory Center : ZAB Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Small Transport Operating Under FAR Part.Other Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Skydiving Flight Phase : Descent Airspace.CIass E : ZAB Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1218788 Events
Anomaly Conflict : Airborne Conflict Detector.Automation : Aircraft TA Detector.Automation : Aircraft RA Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Ambiguous Narrative: 1 Flight to PHX. Upon receiving our clearance in Airport ZZZ, we noticed that recently dispatch has been filing us at 10,000 feet between Airport ZZZ and PHX. The Captain and I believe this is an issue for the following reasons. 10,000 feet on the PINNGI arrival brings you right through the VFR practice area and the VFR sky diving areas for E60 and P08 airports. In this specific instance, there were two [small transport aircraft] both at 12,500 feet dropping skydivers around the BRDEY intersection. I noticed the Aircraft on the TCAS and prepared for evasive action. Aircraft was instructed multiple times that we were coming from below, he decided to drop sky divers anyway and began to descend resulting in our Resolution Advisory (RA). I followed the RA and the Captain and I noticed 2 brightly colored skydivers within 1500 feet of our wingtip - to the point we could see the arms and legs of the divers. ZAB came over the radio and was sternly advising them not to drop but they did anyway and then descended VFR in our direction. This was just one of the RA's among the many TA's we got on this flight. The area in the vicinity of IWA, P08, and CGZ is an extremely dense training ground (designated by the Arizona Flight Training Work group) for multiple flight schools. Flying through this area at such a low altitude is extremely unsafe and should be avoided. Especially around two of the busiest skydiving airports in the United States. From now on, a discussion will be taken between the Captain (CA), dispatch, and myself about amending the altitude on these flights to a safer altitude - 14,000 - 16,000 feet above the GA conflicts. Both the CA and I agree flying 10,000 feet on this flight is an unnecessary risk which should be mitigated. 5 TA and I RA is too many for such a short flight. The altitude filed on these flights should be reconsidered. Synopsis Air carrier First Officer reported multiple TA's and RA's on the flight to PHX at 10,000 feet and suggests filing for a higher altitude on this route.
Time / Day Date : 201409 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : E60.Airport State Reference : AZ Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 6500 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 8000 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : E60 Aircraft Operator : FBO : 20 Make Model Name : Skyhawk 172/Cutlass 172 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Training Nav In Use.VOR / VORTAC : TED Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use.Airway : V94 Airspace.Class E : ZAB Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Make Model Name : Any Unknown or Unlisted Aircraft Manufacturer Mission : Skydiving Airspace.CIass E : ZAB Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : FBO Function.Flight Crew : Instructor Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 300 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 60 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 80
ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1204684 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly.Conflict : NMAC Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Bird / Animal Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.HorizontaI : 100 Miss Distance.Vertical : 30 When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 On a routine instrument rating training flight with a student, we were practicing flying on victor airways from NAVAIDS. We were on V94 from TFD, which crosses E60. I tuned into E60 CTAF 122.80 and asked for an airport advisory, and if any jump operations were in progress. I continued to monitor E60's frequency as I transitioned over the field at 6500. 5 minutes later, with no jump calls, I spotted two jumpers with patrons strapped to them off my wing. I immediately took evasive action to distance myself from them, and to scan for additional jumpers. Major parachute jump operations in a student intensive practice area (the PHX southeast practice area) is a rising issue. Synopsis C172 Flight Instructor with student on V94 at 6,500 FT, reports a NMAC with skydivers over E60 airport. The reporter had been monitoring the CTAF for E60 and heard no calls for jumpers away.
Time / Day Date : 201409 Local Time Of Day : 0001-0600 Place Locale Reference.Airport : SLC.Airport State Reference : UT Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : SLC Make Model Name : Any Unknown or Unlisted Aircraft Manufacturer Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Skydiving Flight Phase.Other Airspace.CIass B : SLC Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Facility : SLC.Tower Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Other / Unknown Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos 1 (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1200795 Communication Breakdown Human Factors : : Confusion Human Factors Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Troubleshooting : Workload Human Factors Human Factors : Situational Awareness Communication Breakdown.Party1 : ATC Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Communication Events Anomaly Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Air Traffic Control : Separated Traffic Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Procedure Aircraft Human Factors Procedure
Narrative: 1 The tower supervisor coordinated with S56 a specific plan to handle a parachute operation that was in progress east of SLC. The Tracon was supposed to let us know when the Jumpers were 2 to 3 minutes from jumping. At that point the Tracon was going to hold all VFR aircraft out that would cause a problem for the jumpers until we called them and reported that the jumpers were on the ground. The first time the jump aircraft called jumpers away the Tracon had already gave us a VFR aircraft after the fact, but we were able to call off the jump until that VFR aircraft landed. The next time the Jump aircraft reported jumpers away the jumpers did jump this time. The jump aircraft exited the Bravo airspace and told the Tracon controller that the jumpers were down and clear, but we were informed that the pilot was not in communication with the jumpers so there was know way for him to know they were all on the ground. We had already coordinated that we would tell the Tracon when they could start sending VFR back into the airspace, but that didn't happen. The Tracon just took the jump report from the pilot and resumed normal ops. The Tracon controller started to let the VFR aircraft(s) back into Bravo again, thinking the jumpers were down, but the tower could still see one parachute still in the air. We tried to get the Tracon to hold the VFR aircraft(s) out, but we ended up having to move the VFR's out of the way on our own until we observed all the jumpers were down. The jump pilot obviously assumed the jumpers were down, but that wasn't the case. We have these parachute jumps every year and they never go as planned. They are always planned at very busy times and very close to the airport. I don't think it is a safe operation and I think it should not be allowed to do any more. Synopsis SLC Controller reports of miscommunication between TRACON and Tower reference jumpers being on the ground and allowing aircraft in close proximity.
Time / Day Date : 201409 Local Time Of Day : 0001-0600 Place Locale Reference.Airport : SLC.Airport State Reference : UT Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 11000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : SLC Make Model Name : Any Unknown or Unlisted Aircraft Manufacturer Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Skydiving Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass B : SLC Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.FaciIity : SLC.Tower Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Local Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (mon) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1200790 : Communication Breakdown Human Factors Confusion Human Factors : Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Time Pressure Human Factors : Troubleshooting Workload Human Factors : : Situational Awareness Human Factors Breakdown.PartyI : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Communication Events Anomaly Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Human Factors
Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 Parachute operation being conducted to the east of the airport close enough to be a factor for east downwind traffic. I was informed the aircraft would be held outside the airspace until jumpers were on the ground. The supervisor informed me aircraft will be held out until he gave the 0k. The TRACON called me and said Aircraft X reported the jumpers on the ground and the arrivals were now inbound. I informed the supervisor who appeared to be on the line with the TRACON at the time. Another controller informed me it didn't look like the last jumper was all the way on the ground yet. I then moved the traffic as far west as I could to avoid any possible conflict. There was some type of miscommunication between the supervisors in the T RACON and tower, and the TRACON controller as to when to allow aircraft back into the airspace. Additionally Aircraft X reported the jumpers were on the ground when that may not have been the case. It seems to avoid any confusion the tower supervisor should make this call. Synopsis SLC Tower Controller reports of parachuting exercise going on in close proximity to the airport.
Time / Day Date : 201408 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Skylane 182/RG Turbo Skylane/RG Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part.Other Flight Plan : None Mission : Skydiving Flight Phase : Parked Component Aircraft Component : Engine Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 403.9 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 51 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 10.9 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1197571 : Situational Awareness Human Factors Human Factors : Troubleshooting : Workload Human Factors Confusion Human Factors : Events
Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Smoke / Fire / Fumes / Odor Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Other / Unknown Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate Result.General : Declared Emergency Result.GeneraI : Evacuated Result. General : Maintenance Action Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.Aircraft : Aircraft Damaged Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 I was getting ready to start the first flight of the day for a small skydiving business. I did a fairly quick preflight Inspection of the airplane, seeing that the group of jumpers was close to being ready to go, and found no abnormalities. Once everyone was loaded up, there were five occupants in the airplane, including myself as the pilot, I ran through the normal engine start procedure, and cranked the engine. The engine did not start, and I figured it was normal, since it was the first start of the day. I pumped the throttle a couple of times and attempted a second startup. As I was cranking the engine, I noticed smoke coming from the cowling. As soon as I pointed out the smoke, the Jump Instructor immediately began evacuating the aircraft. While this was occurring, I remembered my training and continued to crank the engine with the throttle full open and the mixture at idle cut-off. The smoke was still there, and as the last occupant of the aircraft was leaving, I placed the fuel selector to 'OFF' and got out of the plane as quickly as I could. Shortly after I evacuated the airplane, a fire ignited just below the engine. The Jump Instructor got back into the cockpit and tried to start the engine once more (my guess is to try and blow out the fire.) His attempt was unsuccessful, and he turned off the Ignition and Master Switch before getting out. We quickly grabbed as many fire extinguishers as we could find, and attempted to douse the fire while an onlooker called 911. The smoke was getting thicker, and it soon filled the cabin. The extinguishers would only put out the fire temporarily, and it kept re-lighting. Local police arrived with additional fire extinguishers, and we continued to try and put the fire out while waiting for the volunteer firefighters to arrive with trucks. By the time the trucks arrived, the fire itself was out, and the firefighters continued to spray the engine. Once the firefighters finished spraying the engine, we drained the remaining fuel from the airplane. Nobody was injured in this incident, and the fire damage to the aircraft was limited to the engine and part of the instrument panel, along with ash in the cabin. The Jump Instructor (also the owner of the plane) has contacted his insurance company, and we do not know the monetary amount of damage there is. The cause of this incident is also unknown, but my best guess is the problem originated in the carburetor, since the fire itself seemed to be concentrated in that area. We noticed what was most likely fuel leaking from the bottom of the cowling while the fire was burning. I do not know why fuel was continuing to flow into the carburetor even though I placed the fuel selector to off and the mixture to idle cut-off. There may have been a problem with the fuel selector which contributed to
the incident. I spoke with my boss (we have a contract with the skydiving business to provide pilots), who had flown the same aircraft the previous day, and he informed me that the engine did not want to start at first, and had backfired on him that day. I have now heard multiple stories of older Cessnas catching fire in a similar way. I strongly believe that I did not catch any leaks or abnormalities in the engine section during my preflight, but there is always the possibility that I overlooked something. This was my first major aircraft incident as PIC in my flying career, and I am very glad that I was able to keep calm and apply my training during the situation and that everyone walked away just fine. Synopsis A C182 engine caught fire during engine start forcing the pilot and four sky divers to evacuate. Hand fire extinguishers quelled the fire before fire fighters arrived but the Ignited fuel's source is unknown.
Time / Day Date : 201408 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 14500 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility : Cloudy Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : FBO Make Model Name : King Air C90 E90 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part.Other Flight Plan : None Mission : Skydiving Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : None Airspace.CIass E : ZZZ Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : FBO Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 2300 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 65 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 305 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1196787 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Other Events Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence
Detector. Person : Flight Crew Detector. Person : Observer When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airport Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 While climbing to altitude over jump zone, I observed a large cloud moving over the airport. The cloud was at approximately 6,000 feet, and estimated I mile by 1/2 mile in diameter. Approximately 500 to 700 feet in depth. As we approached our exit point for the skydivers, I noticed part of the cloud was still over the airport. I advised the jumpers in the aircraft that there was a cloud in the vicinity of the airport and to let me know which way to adjust my flight path in order to ensure cloud clearance. When I was on jump run and turned the exit light on, 5 experienced jumpers exited the aircraft. As the tandem instructors approached the door, they advised me to go around and offset jump run slightly to the west to avoid the cloud. The remaining jumpers exited the airplane. When I landed, I was advised by an Observer on the ground that the first 5 jumpers had penetrated the cloud. An announcement was made to the entire drop zone that disregard for cloud clearance requirements would not be tolerated and everyone was warned. Synopsis A C90 skydiving jump pilot at 14,500 feet attempted to avoid dropping his jumpers on a cloud at about 6,000 feet but was told after landing the divers had penetrated the cloud.
Time / Day Date : 201408 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : N85.Airport State Reference : NJ Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 4000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 5000 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : N85 Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Sail Plane Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : None Airspace.CIass E : ZNY Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.CTAF : N85 Aircraft Operator : Corporate 10 Make Model Name : Small Aircraft, High Wing, I Eng, Fixed Gear Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Skydiving Flight Phase : Descent Airspace.CIass E : ZNY Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Qualification.Flight Crew : Glider Experience.FIight Crew. Total : 1412 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 12
Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 168 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1194639 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Confusion Communication Breakdown. Partyl : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly.Conflict : NMAC Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural . . FAR Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.HorizontaI : 400 Miss Distance.VerticaI : 50 When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Exited Penetrated Airspace Result.FIight Crew : Became Reoriented Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Primary Problem : Airspace Structure Narrative: 1 I was flying a high-performance single-seat sailplane on a local soaring flight. At the time of the incident I was heading in the general direction of N85, looking for lift under some scattered cumulus clouds with bases around 5,000 MSL. I was monitoring 123.3, which is used by cross-country soaring pilots for informal communications about conditions, etc., and was not on the CTAF for N85. I noticed a line of open parachutes about I mile ahead of me, at and slightly below my altitude. There was no collision hazard at this point. I circled to try to work some lift and heard engine noise. A powered aircraft that was obviously the jump plane appeared from behind and circled outside of me until his higher speed took him away (in effect flying across my nose). I stopped my turn and headed away from N85. After a short interval I again heard engine noise from behind; I maintained a straight course and the jump plane passed me on the right and again cut across my nose (from right to left) before heading away. The jump plane was a single- engine high-wing aircraft with the door removed, I am not sure of the type. I did not see the tail numbers. Presumably the pilot was trying to warn me of the parachutists and divert me away from the area; we were not in radio communication. I was heading toward the parachutists when I first saw them, but was not heading toward them at the time of either pass by the jump plane. The passes were uncomfortably close, and the second was completely unnecessary, I was already leaving the area. An uncharitable interpretation would be that this was an "air rage" incident. I have flown in this general area about 4 times in the last 3 months, in good VMC, and this is the first time I have seen any parachuting activity even though there is a NOTAM for it that blocks out more or less the entire spring, summer and fall. In future I will monitor the CT AF for N85 when in this area.
Synopsis A glider pilot near N85 saw parachutist I mile ahead and circled to gain altitude but was then approach very closely by the jump aircraft twice before exiting the area.
Time / Day Date : 201408 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZOB.ARTCC State Reference : OH Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 12500 Environment Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : D21 Aircraft Operator : FBO Make Model Name : Any Unknown or Unlisted Aircraft Manufacturer Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part.Other Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Skydiving Flight Phase : Climb Route In Use : None Airspace.CIass E : ZOB Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Facility : ZOB.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Enroute Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control.Time Certified In Pos 1 (yrs) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1194057 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Distraction Communication Breakdown.Party1 : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly Airspace Violation : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight
Result.Air Traffic Control : Result.Air Traffic Control : Assessments Provided Assistance Separated Traffic Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 Airspace Structure Aircraft Procedure Human Factors I was working D-side at LFD. OJT being conducted on R-side. Holding 5 aircraft at MIZAR for DTW and more on the way. Holding stack started at 120 and extended up to 170. Parachute operations are common occurrence at Myers-Divers airport, which is about 12 NM north/northeast Of MIZAR. Procedure for para-jumps is spelled out in LOA. I observed code XZXY, which is one of the predetermined para-jumper codes, climbing out of about 080 near Myers-Divers. I assumed DTW would keep jumpers well north Of MIZAR holding stack, this is also spelled out in LOA; that D21 ATCT will protect for holding pattern airspace while ZOB is holding at inbound fixes. As I scan a few moments later I observe code XZXY climbing out of 115 very close to holding aircraft. I called D21 (MIZAR position) and questioned whether para-jumpers were going up, he responded with something like, "Yeah, looks like it." I asked who was working them and called D21 (departures position) and questioned him. Controller responded in the affirmative. I was shocked and began to issue traffic to DTW on at least four aircraft in holding pattern and the D21 controller said something to the effect of, "Do you want to talk to the jumpers?" I responded, "No, I don't think they should be jumping right next to holding stack." D21: "They're VFR; you don't have to worry about them anyways." I don't believe an official point out ever occurred and code XZXY was above 130 by the time I was communicating with DTW Departures. More conversation transpired, but DTW did not follow procedure and then for DTW to treat this event as no big deal was shocking, especially since about 18 months ago a airliner almost collided with jump plane in same vicinity. If underlying facility is planning on using adjacent airspace they need to provide more notice. They also need to be prepared for ATC to say "Unable." Synopsis ZOB Controller reports of an incident involving a skydiving aircraft that isn't pointed out to him and he has to find out what the aircraft is going to do.
Time / Day Date : 201407 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : NCT.TRACON State Reference : CA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 5000 Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : NCT Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Widebody, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 3 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Initial Climb Route In Use : Vectors Airspace.Class B : SFO Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.TRACON : NCT Aircraft Operator : Military Make Model Name : Military Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Skydiving Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.Class B : SFO Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Facility : NCT.TRACON Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Approach Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1186676 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Confusion : 5.5
Communication Breakdown.PartyI . • ATC Communication Breakdown. Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 Working Woodside/ Foster combined in trail. Not getting a good feed which added to the complexity. Saturday VFR day so lots of VFR's running around adding to the complexity. Sightings difficult again adding to the complexity. Toga called up and apreqed departure release for Aircraft X off SJC reference the jump zone. No one had coordinated anything with me about any jump zones, so I said "reference the jump zone, released." Thinking they would hold Aircraft X on the ground until the jumpers were clear. (I assumed it was the jump zone at NUQ as I had heard the other side of the room talking about it). Toga then points out Aircraft Y at 105 and tells me jumpers away in front of my Aircraft X. Three minutes later, plenty of time for the jumpers to get down if they are doing HALO [High Altitude Low Opening] jumps which they usually are at NUQ, Aircraft X departs. Since Aircraft X departed reference the jump zone and the jumpers had time to clear I turned Aircraft X on course which took him over NUQ at 050 though the jump zone. I then went on break and after I left the room, the Boulder Controller went on a tirade about it even though he failed to coordinate with all affected sectors or give the one minute warning prior to jumping which is why I am filling this form out. This keeps happening over and over. 1. Due to the complexity of the sectors surrounding NUQ and the high volume of traffic in the vicinity it is idiotic to let them jump there. It is just an accident waiting to happen. There are just too many high volume, high complex sectors this goes through to be safe. There are plenty of military bases in low traffic/ low density areas. Why do we let them jump through the SCJ/SFO/SQL/PAO traffic? This is one of the most dense/complex airspaces in the world, yet we let them jump though it! Insane! We have problems with this over and over again yet no one thinks to say, "This really isn't a good idea." 2. People still are not coordinating with all affected sectors, nor are they giving warnings about the jumpers about to be released. (Aircraft Y likes to orbit on station for a while, until it is time to release the jumpers over several passes.) This is in spite of the recent briefings on parachute jumping. I feel the sectors are just too busy to accomplish this effectively. Perhaps we should have a checklist for this to make sure all coordination has been done. 3. Have the FLM's more involved in the coordination and release of the jumpers. Synopsis NCT controller reports of a situation where it is believed enough time has passed for skydivers to be on the ground and has an aircraft go through that airspace.
Time / Day Date : 201407 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : OKB.Airport State Reference : CA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 1000 Environment Light : Night Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : SCT Make Model Name : Small Aircraft Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Flight Plan : IFR Nav In Use : GPS Flight Phase : Descent Airspace.Class E : ZLA Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.TRACON : SCT Aircraft Operator : Corporate Make Model Name : Small Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part.Other Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Skydiving Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : None Airspace.CIass E : ZLA Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Facility : SCT.TRACON Reporter Organization : Military Function.Air Traffic Control : Approach Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1184829 : 3.5 Human Factors : Human Factors : Communication Communication Communication Communication Communication Breakdown Confusion Breakdown.Party1 : ATC Breakdown. Partyl : Flight Crew Breakdown. Party2 : Flight Crew Breakdown.Party2 : ATC
Events Anomaly Airspace Violation : All Types Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Returned To Clearance Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 I was working Del Mar Sector, Aircraft X was IFR, inbound to OKB on the GPS RWY24 approach, intending an IFR missed approach. Aircraft Y departed and began climbing for skydiving over OKB. Based on Aircraft Y's performance on previous days, I estimated that Aircraft X would pass the airport before Aircraft Y was ready to drop skydivers. I pointed out Aircraft X to Pacific Sector, who works Aircraft Y, and shipped Aircraft X to the advisory frequency, which Aircraft Y monitors, so the two would be able to communicate their intentions to each other. Aircraft Y climbed much faster than in days prior, and turned inbound to drop skydivers over the airport as Aircraft X was also approaching the airport. Aircraft X checked back in with me not on the published missed approach, but "offsetting for skydivers." The result was an IFR aircraft executing other than the published missed approach, below the MVA. I asked Aircraft X if he was VFR and he concurred. While I don't know if, on the advisory frequency, he offered to alter course for the skydivers, or if Aircraft X just dropped anyway, either way it was an unsafe situation for an IFR aircraft to be in. The pilot should not have had to alter course, whether voluntarily or not, as he, on an IFR approach, is entitled to fly the published missed approach when necessary. The whole operation of Aircraft Y skydiving should be closely reviewed, as it has an enormous impact on IFR traffic and is highly unsafe to VFR traffic as well. The area where Aircraft Y drops skydivers is extremely busy and the altitude he drops from impacts four different sectors: he drops from 13,000 FT, on V458, which is right on the VISTA arrival into LAX, where air carriers need to be descending out of 14,000 FT, affecting ZLA Sector 12, and possibly Sector 21 if the aircraft are stuck high too long; it affects Pacific Sector who works the jump aircraft and VISTA arrivals; it affects North Sector who owns airspace in the area; and it greatly affects Del Mar Sector who works all the traffic in and out of OKB, NFG, and CRQ, all of whose IFR procedures are hindered by the skydiving. Aircraft Y skydiving should have to move their jump zone to a less congested area. If it does continue, Del Mar Sector needs to work the aircraft as they have the most traffic underneath the zone, and we need to be able to instruct the pilot to "hold jumpers" for IFR traffic. Synopsis SCT Controller reports a situation where an IFR aircraft offsets its missed approach for skydiving activity.
Time / Day Date : 201406 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZBW.ARTCC State Reference : NH Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 12000 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZBW Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Large Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Descent Route In Use : Vectors Airspace.CIass E : ZBW Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.Center : ZBW Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Descent Airspace.CIass E : ZBW Aircraft : 3 Reference : Z ATC / Advisory Center : ZBW Make Model Name : Any Unknown or Unlisted Aircraft Manufacturer Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Skydiving Airspace.Class E : ZBW Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Facility : ZBW.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Enroute Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified
Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1176778 Human Factors : Distraction Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly.Deviation - Speed : All Types : 26 Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Air Traffic Control : Separated Traffic Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 I was working the Radar at the Clipper Sector and traffic was very slow with out a D-side. As time went on the sector began to get very busy in a matter Of a few minutes with JFK arrivals. I was sequencing two arrivals flows for JFK, TRAIT being the main arrival fix and SEY the secondary. The aircraft are required to the cross CCC at 120 and 250 knots and most aircraft are descending from FL240. Aircraft X was second in the string and was behind company Aircraft Y; both had the crossing restriction at CCC. The aircrafts' descents and speeds were compatible with approximately 8 miles of spacing. Several JFK arrivals during this time were on vectors and descending to obtain 5 miles of spacing and I was also busy with other aircraft in the sector. As the sector was getting busy and more complex, Aircraft Z called on the frequency and stated he was climbing to eleven - five with jumpers east of the CCC VOR. Aircraft Z is an aircraft that provides thrill-seekers with jumps in the vicinity of the CCC VOR while JFK arrivals fly over head. Most times the jump aircraft climbs to VFR/135 but I think the pilot realized I was busy and chose to climb to VFR/115. There are written procedures in the SOP that cover this jump aircraft. When Aircraft Z called the two [other aircraft] were east of CCC descending from 150 (approximately) to 120 and Aircraft Z was climbing out of 100-ish with 2 minutes until jumpers. At that time I called the traffic and turned Aircraft Y and Aircraft X to ROBER keep the planes away from Aircraft Z. The aircraft were about 7 to 8 miles apart and unfortunately I didn't give another crossing restriction. Most aircraft in this situation will cross abeam CCC at 120 and 250 knots. Meanwhile my attention went back to my spacing and dealing with other aircraft in the sector. During one of my scans I realized Aircraft X had a 40 knots overtake on Aircraft Y and was southeast of CCC. Immediately I turned Aircraft X to a 180 heading to keep my 5 miles, both aircraft were at 120 and the conflict had not activated at this time. As Aircraft X was turning with a halo the conflict went off and the target may have gone inside the 5 mile halo, Aircraft X was turned back to ROBER after the conflict was resolved. Aircraft Z wasn't the sole reason for this situation but it added to the complexity of the sector. After working and seeing this aircraft around for many years I feel this aircraft is an accident waiting to happen. This aircraft should not be allowed to fly near the JFK arrival track or at the very least the aircraft's altitude should be capped at VFR/105. Nobody likes to work this aircraft when it's busy and the pilots do not like it as well.
Synopsis ZBW describes situation where he is distracted by one aircraft while two others lose required separation.
Time / Day Date : 201405 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : AUS.Airport State Reference : TX Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : AUS Make Model Name : Small Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Skydiving Flight Phase : Descent Airspace.CIass C : AUS Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory. Tower : AUS Make Model Name : Small Aircraft, High Wing, I Eng, Fixed Gear Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Flight Plan : VFR Flight Phase : Descent Airspace.CIass C : AUS Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.FaciIity : AUS. Tower Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Departure Function.Air Traffic Control : Approach Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control.Time Certified In Pos 1 (yrs) : ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1172998 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Confusion Communication Breakdown. Partyl : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : NMAC Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight 1
Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 We have two parachute jumping areas in the southwest corner of our airspace, very near another facilities airspace. Aircraft X advised one minute prior to jumping and I had two aircraft nearing that area, so I turned the first one slightly north to avoid the area. I tried to turn Aircraft Y to the southwest to pass around both jumping areas, with no response, they were still about 7 miles from the jump zone so they were no factor for the jumpers but I was worried the descent of the jump plane after the drop. I tried Aircraft Y again moments later with no response again, so I advised Aircraft X about the traffic that was nearing the airfield they were descending into. I had a high workload at this time so I made several other transmissions then checked back on the situation and at this time Aircraft X was about 300 feet lower than Aircraft Y, the plane typically descends rapidly as they spiral directly down onto the field. I assumed Aircraft X would easily be below Aircraft Y since they were still about 3 miles apart at the time, so I issued the traffic again and allowed them to go to advisory frequency. I then called the adjoining facility to advise them that Aircraft Y was NORDO and they said they were talking to him, shortly after this I noticed Aircraft Y start a sharp descent which brought them within 200 feet Of Aircraft X who had seemed to slow his descent. The two planes then turned away from one another and continued onto their respective destinations. When the replay was watched it was noticed that Aircraft Y was never switched to my frequency from the previous facility and I had not noticed due to the volume and complexity of the traffic I was handling at the time, so apparently he had switched to the next facilities frequency on his own skipping my frequency altogether. Part of the problem is that our radar coverage in the southeast of our airspace is very poor, I was not able to radar contact Aircraft Y at the boundary and told the adjacent facility to keep them flying into my airspace and the radar should arts track shortly, Aircraft Y was at 65 feet and had to fly about 10 miles into my airspace before I could slew and take the radar hand off. I believe that because hand offs in that area are often made at a much later time than typical hand offs that it makes it easier for both facilities to forget about them when scanning their airspace. After viewing the replay and thinking about the situation numerous times, I am upset with myself for allowing Aircraft X to change to the advisory frequency and assuming to two aircraft would continue present descent rates. Since I wasn't talking to Aircraft Y I should have held onto Aircraft X until I was sure about the situation. As for the poor radar coverage, we are supposed to be getting STARS in a few months so hopefully that Will help the radar coverage. Synopsis AUS Controller describes an operational error involving a no radio aircraft and an aircraft that had just dropped parachuter's.
Time / Day Date : 201404 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Relative Position. Distance. Nautical Miles : 1000 Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 300 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : 10 Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 12000 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Aeronca Champion Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Training Flight Phase : Landing Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.Class E : ZZZ Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Lancair Undifferentiated Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Final Approach Airspace.CIass E : ZZZ Aircraft : 3 Reference : Z ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Make Model Name : Cessna Aircraft Undifferentiated or Other Model Airspace.Class E : ZZZ Aircraft : 4 Reference : A Make Model Name : Any Unknown or Unlisted Aircraft Manufacturer
Operating Under FAR Part : Mission : Skydiving Airspace.Class E : ZZZ Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft Part 91 Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Private Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 70 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 7.5 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 4.2 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1163172 Human Factors : Other / Unknown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly Conflict : NMAC Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.Horizontal : 50 Miss Distance.VerticaI : 100 When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airport Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I was practicing takeoffs and landings at a local uncontrolled airstrip. I recently got my tailwheel endorsement but I was with my instructor to keep practicing tailwheel until I felt more confident. I was flying an Aeronca Champ. Weather conditions were clear, with a slight haze but 10 SM+ visibility. I started my turn to base a bit early as I was practicing landings without power. This was my second trip through the pattern, I was aware that there was a parachute aircraft high above the airport that just let some jumpers go, and a Cessna in the pattern with me. The aircraft I was flying does not have a radio. I was doing 60 MPH on final and approaching fairly steeply due to the power off landing. I'd guess I was 300 feet AGL when a small aircraft (I think a Lancair) flew right under me, moving much faster than me. I'd say he was 50-100 feet below me. I turned to the left and started climbing because he was slightly on my right. I performed a 360 to the left and landed. We taxied behind the aircraft that passed under us and he seemed oblivious. We wanted to talk to him but he just taxied back and took off again. I went back home and listened to a recording I had of the CT AF from liveatc.net, and I can't hear anything from him to indicate the other aircraft knew what happened. I also noticed the other aircraft was calling out a I mile final in his pattern. I believe this was a failure on the part of both aircraft to see the other (me when turning base and him when over (under) taking me on final). I think that if I had a radio this would have not happened (I plan to use a handheld in the future when possible). I think the short base I took coupled with the long base the
other aircraft was on contributed. Ultimately while I think both parties were responsible for seeing each other, I feel the other aircraft had a greater responsibility as he was moving faster than me from behind. The other aircraft was a low wing, so it should have had excellent visibility of our aircraft from below. Synopsis Aeronca Champ pilot experiences a NMAC with a Lancair who flew under him on short final to an uncontrolled airport. The Champ pilot was making power off landings which resulted in steep approaches and had no radio.
Time / Day Date : 201404 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZJX.ARTCC State Reference : FL Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 23000 Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZJX Make Model Name : Light Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turboprop Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Skydiving Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass A : ZJX Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Facility : ZJX.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Enroute Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1162611 Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.Flight Crew : Captain Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 3000 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 200 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 1400 : 7.75
ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1162611 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Confusion Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.Airspace Violation : All Types Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 Aircraft X was on an IFR flight plan for parachute jump operations over ZPH up to FL230. I requested the aircraft advise me two minutes from jumpers away in order to coordinate with T PA below my stratum. The two minute call had to be solicited from the pilot. Three minutes later, the aircraft calls up requesting vector back to the airport. I inquired if he was jumpers away and he advised he was. I made the call on the frequency and advised the pilot that he need to call and advise us of jumpers away. He proceeded to argue with me that he had, so I printed strips and had management call hm and advise him that per the FAR's, he needs to advise jumpers away. This potentially causes and unsafe situation for ZJX and TPA in that we are unaware when jumpers are or have exited the aircraft. There have been additional problems with this aircraft and the operations he has conducted. I requested Management speak with the pilot of the aircraft and remind him that when operation in Class A airspace, he is required to comply with ATC clearances and per FAR 105 he is to, at minimum, advise when the last jumper has exited the aircraft, a "jumpers away" call. He has not responded to our request to call us. Narrative: 2 Requested descent after jump run ended. When asked if jumpers are away, I responded, "Yes." ATC believed I needed to say jumpers away; we have since discussed the situation with them and hope it is resolved. Synopsis ZJX ARTCC Controller states issue with pilot not advising jumpers away warning two minutes prior. Pilot did not comply with instructions.
Time / Day Date : 201401 Local Time Of Day : 0001-0600 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 3500 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : FBO 10 Make Model Name : Skyhawk 172/CutIass 172 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Training Flight Phase : Cruise Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Aircraft Operator.Other Make Model Name : Twin Otter DHC-6 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Skydiving Flight Phase.Other Route In Use : None Airspace.Class E : ZZZ Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : FBO Function.Flight Crew : Instructor Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 1000 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 10
Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 400 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1146345 Events Anomaly.Conflict : NMAC Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Other / Unknown Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.Horizontal : 300 Miss Distance.VerticaI : 300 When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I was flying with a student on a local training sortie in the east practice area squawking VFR at approximately 3,000 FT in class E airspace while monitoring Tower frequency and performing required maneuvers with said student. While clearing for a power-on stall we looked out and observed a parachutist approximately 700 FT away co-altitude. I immediately took the aircraft and turned away from the parachutist with a 180 degree turn. Upon rolling out and flying for approximately two minutes to clear the area, we began a clearing turn for a power-on stall and saw the jump aircraft rapidly peeling away from our 6 0'clock at approximately 300 FT. I took the aircraft again and did an evasive maneuver from this close-in threat. After that maneuver and clearing the area again we finished our profile and landed. Upon landing I understand that the jump plane had flown close enough to get my tail number (well within 500 FT) without communicating to me, so that he could call and voice a complaint over my presence during his jump. There were no NOTAMs regarding the jump activity that day and there was no mention of it on the Tower frequency I was monitoring. Synopsis C172 instructor with student reports sighting a skydiver under canopy in the practice area and turns away. A few minutes later the jump plane is detected in loose formation, attempting to obtain a tail number. There were no NOTAMs.
Time / Day Date : 201310 Local Time Of Day : 0001-0600 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : SCT.TRACON State Reference : CA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 12500 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : SCT Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 3757-200 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Climb Route In Use.SID : POGG12 Airspace.CIass E : SCT Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.TRACON : SCT Aircraft Operator : Military Make Model Name : Hercules (C-130)/LIOO/382 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Skydiving Flight Phase.Other Airspace.Class E : SCT Aircraft : 3 Reference : Z ATC / Advisory.TRACON : SCT Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Caravan Undifferentiated Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Skydiving Airspace.CIass E : SCT Person Reference : I Location Of Person. Facility : SCT.TRACON Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Departure Function.Air Traffic Control : Approach Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified
ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1124136 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Communication Breakdown. Partyl : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Airborne Conflict Detector.Automation : Aircraft RA Result.General : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 A B757-200 was departing SAN on the POGG12 departure climbing to FL 230. A Cessna Caravan was climbing VFR to 13,500 for OTAY jump zone just north of the B757-200's route. The C-130 was VFR level at 13,000, heading westbound to the TRIDENT jump zone south of the B757-200's flight path. If you don't climb above the jump plane going into OT A Y, you have to vector the aircraft around the jump zone because the SID routing is near the southern edge of the jump zone. The TRIDENT jump zone is approximately 2 miles south of the SID routing and the jump planes are generally never a factor. I was worried about the B757-200's rate of climb, because the Caravan was climbing at the same rate. I stopped the Caravan's climb at 11,700 and verified that the B757-200 was climbing through 12,500 to ensure separation. I switched the B757-200 to Center and instead of responding with the frequency, the pilot stated that they were descending because of an RA. As he said this, I realized that the C-130 had turned northbound from the TRIDENT jump zone (level at 13,000 VFR). I told the C-130 to turn right heading 090 immediately. Once the 8757-200 was clear of the C-130, the 8757-200 was level at 12,000. The Caravan was at the 3757-200's 11 0'clock flying northbound and I told the Caravan to continue northbound for traffic. I knew the B757-200 would pass south of the Caravan and had him climb back to 14,000, then FL230. I think I had only worked 30 minutes total and it wasn't busy. I'm so disappointed in myself for not restricting the C- 130 to a heading and that I didn't notice the C-130's route of flight before switching the 8757-200. It makes you feel bad when an airplane is responding to an RA that you could have prevented. How could I have let that happen and be so confident about the C-130's route of flight? One heading and nothing would have happened. I have worked C-130s in that jump zone before and every time they have flown through the jump zone, gone westbound a few miles then turned back to the east. I should never have assumed that this C-130 would do the same thing. I'm always really vigilant about the north jump zone, because the aircraft working that area always climb high and generally always conflict with the airliners on the departure. I never issued traffic to the C-130 about the B757-200, or the B757-200 about the C-130. I just told the B757-200 about the Caravan because the Caravan was directly in his path. I should never have assumed that the C-130 was going to stay on course but I had given him no instructions. Recommendation, the only thing I can recommend for myself is to never assume what's going to happen. It doesn't make sense to me that I would assume he would fly through the jump zone, even though they typically always do that, but his altitude should have been a big red flag for me. I should have ensured that the B757-200 was above both aircraft before trying to give him a frequency change and I should have ensured the C-130's heading and given each other
traffic advisories. I'm generally always giving VFR aircraft headings or instructions to keep them away from other aircraft so the fact that I didn't this time still baffles me. All I can do is thank the pilots for their immediate responses. Synopsis SCT Controller described a TCAS RA event between an air carrier departure and a Military "jump" aircraft operating to a jump zone, the reporter acknowledging his/her assumptions led to the occurrence.
