ASRS Database Report Set Passenger Misconduct Reports Report Set Description. Update Number.. Date of Update ........................ Number of Records in Report Set................ Number ofNew Records in Report Set ...............50 Type of Records in Report Set.. .........A sampling of reports that reference passenger misconduct. .....32.0 ..Februmy 28, 2018 ............For each update, new records received at ASRS will displace a like number of the oldest records in the Report Set, with the objective of providing the fifty most recent relevant ASRS Database records. Records within this Report Set have been screened to assure then- relevance to the topic.
National Aeronautics and Space Administration Ames Research Center Moffett Field, CA 94035-1000 TH: 262-7 MEMORANDUM FOR: Recipients of Aviation Safety Reporting System Data SUBJECT: Data Derived from ASRS Reports The attached material is furnished pursuant to a request for data from the NASA Aviation Safety Reporting System (ASRS). Recipients of this material are reminded when evaluating these data of the following points. ASRS reports are submitted voluntarily. The existence in the ASRS database of reports concerning a specific topic cannot, therefore, be used to infer the prevalence of that problem within the National Airspace System. Information contained in reports submitted to ASRS may be amplified by further contact with the individual who submitted them, but the information provided by the reporter is not investigated further. Such information represents the perspective of the specific individual who is describing their experience and perception of a safety related event. After preliminary processing, all ASRS reports are de-identified and the identity of the individual who submitted the report is permanently eliminated. All ASRS report processing systems are designed to protect identifying information submitted by reporters; including names, company affiliations, and specific times of incident occurrence. After a report has been de-identified, any verification of information submitted to ASRS would be limited. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration and its ASRS current contractor, Booz Allen Hamilton, specifically disclaim any responsibility for any interpretation which may be made by others of any material or data furnished by NASA in response to queries of the ASRS database and related materials. Linda J. Connell, Director NASA Aviation Safety Reporting System
CAVEAT REGARDING USE OF ASRS DATA Certain caveats apply to the use of ASRS data. All ASRS reports are voluntarily submitted, and thus cannot be considered a measured random sample of the full population of like events. For example, we receive several thousand altitude deviation reports each year. This number may comprise over half of all the altitude deviations that occur, or it may be just a small fraction of total occurrences. Moreover, not all pilots, controllers, mechanics, flight attendants, dispatchers or other participants in the aviation system are equally aware of the ASRS or may be equally willing to report. Thus, the data can reflect reporting biases. These biases, which are not fully known or measurable, may influence ASRS information. A safety problem such as near midair collisions (NMACs) may appear to be more highly concentrated in area "A" than area "B" simply because the airmen who operate in area "A" are more aware of the ASRS program and more inclined to report should an NMAC occur. Any type of subjective, voluntary reporting will have these limitations related to quantitative statistical analysis. One thing that can be Imown from ASRS data is that the number of reports received concerning specific event types represents the lower measure of the true number of such events that are occurring. For example, if ASRS receives 881 reports of track deviations in 2010 (this number is purely hypothetical), then it can be known with some certainty that at least 881 such events have occurred in 2010. With these statistical limitations m mind, we believe that the real power of ASRS data is the qualitative information contained in report narratives. The pilots, controllers, and others who report tell us about aviation safety incidents and situations in detail — explaining what happened, and more importantly, why it happened. Using report narratives effectively requires an extra measure of study, but the knowledge derived is well worth the added effort.
Report Synopses
ACN:1509813 (lof50) Synopsis A320 First Officer reported that one of the flight attendants encountered an unruly passenger during boarding that resulted in the passenger being removed. ACN: 1507590 (20f50) Synopsis 3767 Captain reported inadequate rest for a long flight due to loud passengers seated near the crew rest area. ACN:1503082 (30f50) Synopsis A320 first officer reported that a disturbance in the cabin caused a distraction that resulted in a deviation from the descent profile clearance. ACN:1500004 (40f50) Synopsis Air carrier Flight Attendant reported that Federal Air Marshals were allowed to board prior to the crew boarding. ACN: 1498680 (50f50) Synopsis An air carrier Captain reported that a male passenger had groped a flight attendant. A decision was made to divert and have the passenger removed by law enforcement authorities. ACN:1498651 (60f50) Synopsis A B737 flight crew reported a serious unruly passenger incident while at cruise altitude. The individual was subdued, and the flight continued to the destination airport, where law enforcement personnel were waiting. ACN:1497442 (70f50) Synopsis 8777 Flight Crew reported that an unexpected autoland due to a change in weather, resulted in a shorter approach and insufficient time for Flight Attendants to secure carts, one of which struck a passenger. ACN:1484156 (80f50)
Synopsis A321 Flight Attendant reported she wanted to reseat a passenger who was using a cane from the emergency exit row, but was overruled by customer service. ACN: 1479249 (90f50) Synopsis Air carrier flight crew reported a return to the gate at LAX after an intoxicated passenger refused to stow an oversize bag. ACN: 1471419 (100f50) Synopsis A twin engine piston pilot reported a passenger grabbed the controls multiple times after being told to stop and asked for Police to meet the flight. However, upon landing the Police went to the wrong gate. ACN: 1471209 (11 Synopsis Deadheading Flight Attendant reported the screening process for emergency exit row passengers which only requires an affirmative answer to the question "are you willing and able to assist in an emergency?" The passengers in question were obviously not able. ACN: 1469450 (120f50) Synopsis An Embraer ERJ-175 Captain reported they returned to the gate due to an intoxicated/ill passenger. ACN: 1463822 (130f50) Synopsis Air carrier flight crew reported a 3 hour 15 minute delay opening the aircraft door due to ramp closure for lightning strikes. As a result of this and prior reroutes, the crew exceeded the FAR allowable flight time. ACN: 1463630 (140f50) Synopsis 3737 Flight Attendants reported questioning Company Operations and the Captain's decision to depart with a group Of intoxicated passengers. ACN: 1462045 (150f50) Synopsis
Air carrier flight attendants, with a Mexico City destination, reported an emotional service monkey on board the aircraft which caused the plane to be quarantined. ACN: 1459683 (160f50) Synopsis Two A320 flight attendants reported an encounter with a passenger and their efforts to keep her calm and in her seat until the aircraft landed safely. ACN: 1458285 (170f50) Synopsis A Flight Attendant reported a verbally abusive and apparently emotional unstable passenger became belligerent and aggressive. ACN: 1458121 (180f50) Synopsis A320 Captain and the Purser involved reported a return to the gate to inspect for hail damage at which point a passenger became irate and was removed from the flight. ACN•. 1457917 (190f50) Synopsis 3737 Captain reported they had an uncooperative passenger who was apparently attempting to provoke a reaction and receive compensation. ACN: 1456370 Synopsis 3737 Captain reported a first class passenger was verbally harassing the crew and complaining about the flight being late. The Captain elected to have the passenger removed from the flight. ACN•. 1453417 (21 Synopsis An air carrier Captain reported refusing an FAA Air Safety Inspector's request for a jumpseat because his facial hair violated the company grooming code. The Inspector threatened the crew with license revocation, but a Supervisor verified the crew's actions and allowed the Inspector in the cabin. ACN: 1452419 (220f50) Synopsis
3737 Captain reported a Flight Attendant had been grabbed by her shirt by an aggressive passenger. The Captain followed the procedures for a level 2 threat. ACN: 1452377(230f50) Synopsis Air carrier Flight Attendant reported that after push back a passenger requested to disembark the aircraft without claiming their luggage. ACN: 1452376 (240f50) Synopsis A Flight Attendant reported that a passenger requested to get off the airplane without claiming their luggage. ACN: 1451832 (250f50) Synopsis Air Carrier flight crew reported a passenger misconduct issue delayed departure when the passenger refused to deplane voluntarily. ACN•. 1449276 (26 of50) Synopsis Air carrier Flight Attendant reported a passenger would not remain seated during taxi to the gate. The Captain was advised, but continued to taxi. ACN: 1449060 (270f50) Synopsis Air Carrier Flight Attendant reported an issue with a passenger during meal service. ACN: 1447118 (28 of50) Synopsis A Flight Attendant reported an inebriated passenger claimed to have been shocked by exposed passenger service unit wires, but refused medical attention and became increasingly agitated and aggressive. ACN: 1447064 Synopsis A319 Captain was informed of unruly passengers shortly before takeoff and elected to return to the gate. Before the return could be accomplished the passengers calmed down and the flight departed.
ACN: 1446724 (300f50) Synopsis A319 flight crew reported that they had an unaccounted passenger on board. ACN: 1446372 (31 of50) Synopsis A Flight Attendant reported a passenger misconduct incident involving the unauthorized filming of the flight crew performing their duties. ACN: 1446366 (320f50) Synopsis A Flight Attendant reported a passenger misconduct incident regarding the unauthorized use of premium seating. When the passengers were confronted, and told they would be charged for upgrading, they responded in a very threatening and abusive manner. ACN: 1445971 (330f50) Synopsis 8777 Captain reported a disruptive passenger who changed seats and then tried to extort some kind of compensation for causing disruption. ACN: 1444510 (340f50) Synopsis C206 pilot reported that a pilot-qualified passenger's incessant input regarding traffic and other aspects of the flight caused undue interference and distraction. ACN•. 1444373 (350f50) Synopsis A321 Flight Attendant reported an abusive and drunk passenger in flight. The passenger was escorted off the aircraft by security at the destination airport. ACN•. 1444349 (360f50) Synopsis CRJ-200 Flight Attendant reported a passenger in an emergency exit row was defiant and non-compliant when asked to stow his laptop and remove newspapers from the exit row floor beneath his feet. ACN•. 1444341 (370f50) Synopsis
Flight Attendant reported noncompliance with an apparently intoxicated passenger. ACN: 1443504 (380f50) Synopsis Air Carrier Flight Attendant reported of a disruptive passenger that got in her face for reasons she could not control. ACN•. 1443500 (390f50) Synopsis 3767-300 Flight Attendant reported a disruptive passenger on a trans Atlantic flight who demanded an upgraded seat due to her senior citizen status and refused to return to her assigned seat. ACN: 1443377 (400f50) Synopsis C208 Captain reported being severely distracted by a passenger during two consecutive approaches that resulted in go arounds. The third attempt to the opposite runway was successful. ACN: 1443217 (41 Synopsis A321 Flight Attendant reported not receiving the approach announcement from the Captain and only realizing how close to landing when hearing the gear extended. The cabin was not completely secured and a passenger was in the forward lavatory during the landing. ACN: 1442058 (42 of50) Synopsis 3737 Flight Attendant reported unruly passengers on an international flight who refused to take their assigned seats. ACN: 1441601 (430f50) Synopsis Air carrier Captain reported law enforcement met the aircraft on arrival due to unruly passengers. ACN: 1438895 (440f50) Synopsis
Flight Attendant reported a disruptive passenger demanded wine and his aggressive behavior caused some passengers to be reseated. Law enforcement met the aircraft. ACN: 1438881 (450f50) Synopsis Boeing 787 Flight Attendant reported an adult passenger required a diaper change in his seat. The Flight Attendant questioned whether the passenger should have been boarded under this condition, citing sanitary reasons. ACN: 1432371 (460f50) Synopsis 3737 Flight Attendant reported having to instruct an off duty Flight Attendant in uniform, to keep her small dog in its carrier prior to and after the flight. ACN: 1430732(470f50) Synopsis A319 flight crew reported an irate passenger began banging on the flight deck door while the aircraft was waiting for a gate. ACN: 1430255 (480f50) Synopsis A flight attendant reported that a passenger had a razor blade out. ACN: 1429289 (490f50) Synopsis A Flight Attendant reported several boisterous, non conforming passengers boarded their flight and were determined to be under the influence of marijuana but were removed after a gate return. After a layover between flights, the same passengers were boarded on a connecting flight at a different airport. ACN: 1428060 (500f50) Synopsis Air taxi pilot reported experiencing whiteout conditions while VFR on approach to TRK. A passenger in the right seat panicked, distracting the pilot which lead to a stall and recovery during the IMC missed approach.
Report Narratives
Time / Day Date : 201801 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : A320 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 1644 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 383 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1509813 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Attendant Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Ground Personnel Events Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate Result.GeneraI : Evacuated Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Ambiguous Narrative: 1 Company Policy Human Factors
The Captain and Lead Flight Attendant were both coordinating how to appropriately accommodate a quadriplegic passenger that expected to need assistance being changed during the course of the flight. That issue was worked out uneventfully, but required a significant amount of coordination. This included the physical presence of the In-Flight station manager, the CSR (Customer Service Representative) supervisor, and the CSR station manager. (I think this is who was present, they never presented themselves in the cockpit. ) While the Captain was on the phone with the [operations manager] regarding the care of the disabled passenger, [Flight Attendant] came into the cockpit to report that she had just been verbally assaulted by a passenger calling her an [expletive] after chasing her down the aircraft aisle over a baggage issue. [The passenger] also supposedly shook his finger in her face while calling her that. [Another Flight Attendant] was right behind the passenger when this occurred. I will not include any further details in that regard since I wasn't present and didn't witness it myself. I can say, however, that [the Flight Attendant] was visibly stressed to the point of shaking and expressed that she was not comfortable flying with [this passenger] on the plane. To me this was a clear threat due to the verbal language and physical behavior of the passenger. We did not request any additional presence at the aircraft due to the fact that as far as we knew everyone required was already present. The reason I marked all of the communication issues [is] that at no point during either of these issues did any of the management or CSR representatives at the aircraft attempt to communicate with the Captain. The In-Flight supervisor is the one exception, but that was not until it got to the point of removing either the two flight attendants who had witnessed the incident and were not comfortable flying with that passenger, or the passenger himself. We did have two cockpit jumpseaters, which presented a physical challenge to communication with the Captain. Eventually, the Captain elected to remove the passenger and the whole plane was deplaned in accordance with company policy. Synopsis A320 First Officer reported that one of the flight attendants encountered an unruly passenger during boarding that resulted in the passenger being removed.
Time / Day Date : 201712 Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B767 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Oceanic Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Crew Rest Area Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 11849 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1507590 Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Fatigue Events Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Other / Unknown Detector. Person : Flight Crew Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : In-flight Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 During my entire break in the crew rest seat I listened to several children including an infant crying and communicating extremely loud right behind the crew rest seat and adjacent to the flight attendant crew rest area. After an hour and a half of crying babies and loud fussy young children I gave up on sleeping and watched the video monitor. This was the perfect storm of kids versus flight crew rest. Both of my first officers also experienced the same issue as well as did the entire flight attendant crew. I contacted the [Customer Service] team for passenger compensation because there were
many complaints from most of the [Premium Class] passengers. This flight was 8:40 in length and basically no flight crew member experienced a comfortable rest break at any time during the flight. Synopsis 3767 Captain reported inadequate rest for a long flight due to loud passengers seated near the crew rest area.
Time / Day Date : 201712 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 12000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : A320 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Initial Approach Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1503082 Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Overshoot Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.General : Police / Security Involved Result.FIight Crew : Returned To Clearance Passenger Misconduct Result.Flight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1
On the STAR, we were called by the flight attendants about 10 minutes prior to descent regarding a disturbance in the cabin. A female passenger had claimed a male passenger had assaulted her and would not stop touching her. They did not report injuries but requested the police to be at the gate upon arrival. We tried immediately after the call to reach Operations with no answer. At some point during this, ATC issued descend and maintain clearance to FL220. After initiating the descent, the captain resumed attempting to contact Operations. While on the radio with Operations, ATC issued another descend clearance to 17,000 with an expedite descent. I set open descent and read back the clearance. Just prior to returning from speaking with Operations, ATC issued another clearance, this time descend via the STAR. I input 3000 and continued the descent. The captain returned to state he had reached Operations and the police would be present. Shortly after this, ATC instructed us to maintain 13000. I realized we were below the crossing restriction and initiated a climb to 13000. We were in VMC conditions and ATC verified we had returned to descend via clearance and climbed to 13000. No further communication occurred and we thanked ATC for their help. The combination of flight attendants calling, multiple altitude clearances and a brief expedite clearance caused me to forget to set managed descent from open descent upon receiving the descend via clearance. I knew immediately when queried by ATC what had occu rred. This was a combination Of multiple distractions and varied clearances. Diligence when one pilot is handling a problem outside of normal flight is required. Perhaps once established on an arrival after initial descent expedited descents shouldn't be issued unless for immediate traffic avoidance. Synopsis A320 first officer reported that a disturbance in the cabin caused a distraction that resulted in a deviation from the descent profile clearance.
Time / Day Date : 201711 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : LFPG.Airport State Reference : FO Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Cabin Activity : Boarding Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1500004 Human Factors : Time Pressure Events Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Security Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1
As the crew arrived at the gate, later than scheduled, I was one of the first to make it down the jet bridge. As I was descending I saw 4 people getting secondary screening in an area off an elbow in the jet bridge. As I continued down to the aircraft door I witnessed an airport security person escorting a passenger off the aircraft. I was surprised as the plane had been on the gate for nearly an hour, this could not be a passenger still deplaning on arrival. As I entered the aircraft to stow my belongings I noted that the FAMs were already on board. I recognized this as a violation of FAR 121.391, minimum crew on board before boarding. I then went back up the jet bridge to inform our Security/Gate Agent that a person had been boarded without any crewmembers on board. Agent said that they were secondary screening some passengers and that the passenger was not a security issue. In an effort to expedite boarding they were put on the jet bridge and told to wait. The passenger somehow made it down, on to the plane in spite of personnel in place. The CA and Purser arrived moments later and I informed them. The CA discussed the situation with the lead security agent and the purser and it was agreed not to have to re screen the plane to expedite departure. First problem I see is the pressure to expedite boarding to make up for a delay. Second, allowing passengers onto the jet bridge while the plane is being serviced by many airport workers. I assume the passenger saw the FAM's go onto the Aircraft and assumed it was okay to do the same. The airport security person at the door may have thought she was another FAM, or may have been distracted and had his/her back turned as the passenger walked on. Synopsis Air carrier Flight Attendant reported that Federal Air Marshals were allowed to board prior to the crew boarding.
Time / Day Date : 201711 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZLA.ARTCC State Reference : CA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 34000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZLA Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Large Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Direct Route In Use.STAR : PINGG Airspace.CIass A : ZLA Person Reference : 1 Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification. Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (AT P) Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 556 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1498680 Events Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Detector. Person : Flight Attendant When Detected : In-flight Result. General : Police / Security Involved Result.Flight Crew : Diverted Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors
Narrative: 1 Near the end of boarding as I was preparing to make my welcome aboard Public Announcement, my lead flight attendant told me a male passenger had asked her out in front of the passenger's girlfriend. At the time, I thought it was odd and off-color but not disruptive or disorderly. We took off and shortly after climb out, the flight attendants called up and said this same passenger had exchanged seats with his girlfriend, who was sitting in first class. They said he was sleeping and not causing any other problems, so I thought his actions were thoughtless but still not disruptive. About 70 minutes into the flight, the flight attendants called up and said this same passenger had groped one of the other flight attendants. At that time, I decided to divert into PHX, which was about 160 NM in front of us. I sent Dispatch an ACARS message regarding my intentions and the situation to coordinate ground operations and having the authorities meet the aircraft. We informed ATC and told them about the situation. They asked if the cockpit was secure - it was - and gave us direct to a point on the PINGG arrival into PHX. We responded to the queries but soon had to focus on our descent and arrival planning. During the descent, I made a Public Announcement to the customers informing them we had to divert into PHX for a minor indicator problem and that we'd be on the ground in less than 25 minutes. We pulled up the ATIS and briefed our arrival with me as the pilot flying. We were given a visual into Runway 25R and landed uneventfully. After getting a gate assignment, we pulled up with operations on the scene and with their lights flashing. We shut down the engines and completed all the appropriate checklists. I then briefed the operations and other company officials in the jet bridge about the situation. There was a little confusion regarding the passenger in question because he had exchanged seats and our records showed a woman in that seat assignment. But after I explained what happened, they briefed me on their plan, which was to ASK the unruly passenger to get off first and if he didn't comply, they would ask everyone else to get off then remove the unruly passenger. Fortunately, he walked off under their direction and was taken into the terminal. The flight attendant who was groped was debriefed by operations and company officials and I started coordinating our follow on flight. I called Dispatch on the phone for a new flight plan, fuel request, and other required information. The local operations in PHX were outstanding in meeting our needs and we were back on our way in what seemed like a short amount of time to me. I then made another Public Announcement to the customers about what had happened and that we would be continuing shortly. No one seemed overly concerned to me at that time. My first officer performed exceptionally during this entire diversion and had most of the preflight duties completed upon my return to the cockpit. I downloaded and accepted the new release with our required fuel and we were pushing back shortly afterwards. During the flight, I asked for feedback from my First Officer and the jump seater about what we could have done differently. During that conversation, I realized that I didn't actually declare for priority handling with ATC I informed ATC of our Threat Level 2 and secure cockpit and intentions to divert into PHX. With my focus on getting down, I hope that information and communications would suffice. Upon a successful and uneventful landing, we were met by an Inflight Supervisor. I thanked my First Officer for all of his efforts and debriefed with my remaining flight attendants in the terminal about what had happened. It was then that I learned about the magnitude of the "groping" and the horrible actions of the unruly passenger, which only
corroborated my divert decisions. I gave my contact information to all of the crew, the supervisor and asked to be updated about any follow up questions if needed. Synopsis An air carrier Captain reported that a male passenger had groped a flight attendant. A decision was made to divert and have the passenger removed by law enforcement authorities.
Time / Day Date : 201711 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 37000 Environment Light : Dusk Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8737-800 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Descent Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.Class A : ZZZ Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 709 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1498651 Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 170 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 820 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1498654 Events
Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : Police / Security Involved Assessments Passenger Misconduct Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 One of the F/A (Flight Attendants) called the flight deck and informed us that there was a Passenger sitting in the aft portion of the aircraft who was behaving strangely but was not yet a problem. We acknowledged and told the F/A to keep us informed of the situation and if it became more of a problem. As time went on, the situation did indeed escalate and it went from the individual in question behaving strangely to becoming much more belligerent, such as being loud and obnoxious, using profanity, making loud comments to other Passengers that made no sense, and eventually refusing to comply with F/A' s instructions. At that point, we were now in Threat Level I. During this time, we had already started our descent, so we continued to our destination. Unfortunately, events in the cabin escalated even further and eventually became physical and the disruptive Passenger had to be restrained with the use of the aircraft restraint cuffs. We were then in Threat Level 2. This was apparently a free for all encounter by the F/A' s account and it took an off duty commuting Company FFDO (Federal Flight Deck Officer) Pilot, a Law Enforcement Officer who was onboard, and possibly two or three other individuals, some of whom had law enforcement experience to subdue this individual. We had previously informed Dispatch and destination Station operations of our situation and they were prepared for us with ample Law Enforcement Officers, Medical Personnel and Station Representatives as we pulled into the gate. The individual was removed from the aircraft without incident and the F/A's were polled as to their mental frame of mind for our return flight to XXX. Though somewhat startled, they all felt they were up mentally for the return flight to XXX, so we proceeded as planned. To my knowledge, no one was actually physically injured during this event, and destination operations later informed me that the disruptive Passenger had been taken to a local hospital for a mental evaluation. Narrative: 2 Late in the flight, the F/A (Flight Attendant) contacted us on interphone. As Pilot Monitoring, I took the call, and the Captain was monitoring the communication. The F/A (the A) told us they had a non-cooperative Passenger and described his behavior as pacing the aisles and being very vocal. At that point, the Captain jumped in to manage the situation, and I was prepared to be both Pilot Monitoring and Pilot Flying, but still monitored the cabin situation. The A F/A mentioned the disruptive Passenger was seated in one of the last rows next to an elderly couple and she had enlisted their aid to calm him. The Captain and I discussed it briefly, and our extra resources. In addition to the elderly couple, we had at least two able bodied Passengers: an armed Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) and a commuting
Company Captain who was also an FFDO (Federal Flight Deck Officer). It sounded like the situation was under control. The timing of the flight was such that I had about ten minutes from the hourly ATIS update and Top Of Descent, and it was time to start getting landing information together for Arrival and Approach Briefings. At about that time, the A Flight Attendant called again to say the situation had escalated into a physical confrontation, and they were going to get restraints on the Passenger with aid of the able-bodied Passengers. The Captain and I discussed again, and I sent via ACARS a message to Dispatch that we would need Law Enforcement upon arrival, we had a commuting Pilot plus onboard LEO for help, the situation was under control, and we had a restrained Passenger. Very shortly after that we received a call from the F/A stating the Passenger had broken the restraints, an altercation broke out, and several Passengers had come to their aid, and possible minor injuries. The F/A (in the confusion I don't know which one it was) was very stressed and nearly in tears. The Captain and I discussed an ATC notification. In as much as we were on a straight-in approach to a non-busy airport, we agreed there was little to be gained by asking for priority at that time. We were becoming task-saturated as it was. Instead, the plan was to inform Tower Control at initial contact to get an immediate taxi to the gate after landing. Dispatch had requested more information via ACARS. Since typing on ACARS is slow and we were then within radio range of destination operations, I called them directly on VHF2 to verify Law Enforcement summons and request Paramedics for possible Passenger injuries. The person on the radio was not yet aware of our situation, so I briefed them quickly. As an FFDO I rechecked my equipment in the event that I would need to defend the flight deck The approach went normally and I notified Tower of our need for taxi priority upon landing, which they approved. I started the APU on short final as a precaution. The Captain flew the aircraft and landing went normally and we proceeded off the high-speed and directly to Gate X X. Law Enforcement was on hand and I think Paramedics were too. Synopsis A B737 flight crew reported a serious unruly passenger incident while at cruise altitude. The individual was subdued, and the flight continued to the destination airport, where law enforcement personnel were waiting.
Time / Day Date : 201711 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZZ.Airport State Reference : FO Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : IMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8777 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Landing Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.FIight Crew : Captain Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 5884 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 59 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1497442 Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 3238 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 709 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1497152 Person : 3
Reference : 3 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Cabin Activity : Service Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.Flight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1497834 Human Factors : Time Pressure Person : 4 Reference : 4 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Cabin Activity : Service Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.Flight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1497836 Human Factors : Time Pressure Events Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Illness Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Passenger Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 The airport had just gone below CAT 1 so we had briefed a CAT 2 approach. We were filed for the RNAV STAR. ATC gave us a heading to intercept the localizer approximately 25 miles out from the runway. That had shortened the arrival which has a large delaying "S" turn. We had double dinged the cabin at 10,600 ft. ATC was controlling our speed and had us slower than we would normally be that far out on a better weather day. The approach and auto land went as expected. I had selected autobrakes to level 4 considering the weather. We parked and finished our debriefing of the flight; we then opened the cockpit door. The Lead FA came in and said "Captain, there is a passenger that wants to talk to you about the landing" and she started to leave. Desiring more information, I said "wait, what does he want to know about the landing?" She again repeated that the man wants to talk to the Captain about the landing and she left. I grabbed my flight bag and belongings and proceeded towards the exiting door (2L) to say good-bye to the passengers. That exit door has a walk through galley, but the curtain was closed. A man had walked through that
closed area and opened the curtain from the inside. When the curtain opened I first noticed broken glass on the floor. Then I observed the man who appeared to be upset. He asked me if I was the Captain and I answered yes I am. He said are you the one who landed the airplane? Because of his body language and his tone, I ask him to calm down and he replied to me "you need to calm down". I said I am the one who landed, (did not tell him it was an auto land). He claimed he got hit in the head with a galley cart that came down the aisle on landing. Narrative: 2 On the descent, Captain followed SOP by alerting the flight attendants at 10,600 feet with the CABIN ALERT button (pushed twice.) We made a normal AUTOLAND approach and landing with AUTOBRAKES 4. After shutdown and completing Parking and Termination checklists, Captain was asked by a flight attendant to meet with a passenger about our landing. I observed a passenger walk over to speak with Captain, but could not see or hear the passenger since they met in a galley area near door 2L. Narrative: 3 An announcement was made saying we were landing in 20 minutes. As we were picking up we noticed that carts were still in the aisle in Coach. [Another FA] went back to help them get ready for landing. Everyone was working like crazy trying to get everything picked up and stowed. We actually landed somewhere between 5 - 8 minutes after the announcement! I had to sit in my jump seat at 2R before I could finish securing the quarter turn latches over the carts. I snapped on my seatbelt seconds before the wheels touched the ground. When the reverse thrusters were applied, two carts, a cart door and an overhead half bin flew out of position. Glass racks flew out of a cart breaking lots of glasses all over the galley floor. The brakes on the half liquor carts don't actually work so they came out of their housing. As a matter of fact none of the half carts have brakes that really work, only keeps it from rolling in one direction, but will move in others. After the plane was taxiing at a normal speed, I got up to pick up the bin and racks to clear up the area. When I put a liquor cart back into its position that's when I realized that the other cart was missing. I looked down the aisle towards the front and saw that the cart had rolled down the aisle just a little past Row 6. As I was about to move the cart a passenger grabbed my arm and told me the cart hit him in the head. Narrative: 4 We were picking up trays as fast as we could. We only had four flight attendants working in the back, unfortunately. This covers FAA minimums, but realistically, for that airplane, it is not enough, even with a lighter load. I then heard someone shout that we were landing - to take our seats! I hurried, as fast as I could to get my pickup cart in the housing, and [another flight attendant] was shouting for me to sit in her seat with her, but I chose to run to my seat. I did make it to the seat, and was able to get strapped in just as we were touching down. There were bins that were hanging out in the aux galley beside my door, as we did not have time in any of the galleys to make sure everything was secure, much less go through the cabin and verify that everything and everyone was secure. Synopsis
3777 Flight Crew reported that an unexpected autoland due to a change in weather, resulted in a shorter approach and insufficient time for Flight Attendants to secure carts, one of which struck a passenger.
Time / Day Date : 201709 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : CLT.Airport State Reference : NC Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : A321 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Cabin Activity : Boarding Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.FIight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1484156 Human Factors : Confusion Events Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Primary Problem : Company Policy Narrative: 1
I was the C Flight Attendant and I observed a passenger using an assistive device to walk (cane). She was limping as she walked and it was clear to me that in the event of an emergency that she would not be able to assist me with an evacuation. After observing this I approached her and said, "ma'am, I'm concerned that you may not be able to assist in an emergency and I'm going to have to re-seat you". She asked why, I told her "l noticed you limping and in order to sit in the emergency exit row you need to have full use of your legs and arms." She refused to be reseated and said that she had been allowed to sit in an emergency row while having her assistive device with her before. I then let the A know what was going on. We found exit seat criteria on our tablets before talking with a [customer service agent]. After speaking with several [customer service agents] and advising the crew service center along with Flight Attendant supervisors we were advised that it was 0k for this passenger who was limping and did not have full use of her legs (using an assistive device) was allowed to sit in the emergency exit row. The Captain explained that he did not have any authority to overrule the customer service agent. The customer service supervisor said that they were concerned about being sued for discrimination [under the] disabilities act and refused to move her based on that and not wanting to be filmed and out on social media. While inflight the passenger sitting beside her advised that the customer service agent asked her if she was able to operate the exit and she informed her that she had a knee Injury and that's the reason she had to use the cane In order to walk. This passenger went on to say that the customer service agent apologized to her for her inconvenience and gave her a voucher to be used her next flight. At no time did the customer service agent disclose to the crew that the passenger informed her that she was injured and had to use her cane to assist her with walking. Upon landing it was clear that this passenger needed the cane as she was limping even more than before when leaving the plane. FARS were not followed. The first manager that I spoke with did inform me that the tablet was my guidance and to follow procedure and that the Captain would have the final say. However another supervisor asked if I'd spoken with the lady and if she said she was able to operate the exit then there was nothing further that we could do. I just need clarification on the exit seat criteria. I take this very seriously as I've been in an emergency evacuation before. I'm not sure what needs to happen to not have this occur again. As a Flight Attendant I am trained to make assessments regarding the emergency exit rows and follow FARS as they are laid out in our tablets. I don't understand why we have the tablets if someone can override them. I followed procedure and the passenger refused to follow crew member instructions and was rewarded with a travel voucher without any regard given to safety. Synopsis A321 Flight Attendant reported she wanted to reseat a passenger who was using a cane from the emergency exit row, but was overruled by customer service.
Time / Day Date : 201709 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : LAX.Airport State Reference : CA Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Dusk Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Ramp : LAX Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Medium Large Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Taxi Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1479249 Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 2700 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 1200 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1479250 Events Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy
Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Detector. Person : Flight Attendant When Detected : Taxi Result.GeneraI : Police / Security Involved Result.FIight Crew : Returned To Gate Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I was the captain and PM operating from LAX. During pushback, FA-A called to report an intoxicated passenger with bloodshot eyes who would not respond to crewmember instructions. He had snuck a large bag onboard (to avoid checking it) that was sitting between his feet and would not fit in the overhead bins or under the seat in front of him. When the flight attendants attempted to question or interact with him, he'd just look at them, confused, and ignore them, or tell them to leave him alone. Other passengers had commented on his behavior as well. We immediately canceled the push and coordinated a return to our gate with the ramp crew and LA ground. My FO notified LAX Ops that we needed [gate agent] and possibly law enforcement for an intoxicated passenger who would not comply with crewmember instructions. Upon parking at the gate again, we gathered more information about the passenger including his seat number, name, physical description and build. We passed this information along to Ops, and I made a delay explaining the reason for a gate return. My FO kept dispatch in the loop while I talked to ramp and our FAs. The police arrived and recommended EMTs be contacted, as the man appeared to be unconscious and completely unresponsive. EMTs arrived and managed to interact with the man. He admitted to being under the influence of alcohol and sleeping pills. We had him removed from the flight and departed without further incident. He was healthy enough that he was able to walk off the aircraft, and did not require any specific medical equipment or attention. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis Air carrier flight crew reported a return to the gate at LAX after an intoxicated passenger refused to stow an oversize bag.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Small Transport, Low Wing, 2 Recip Eng Flight Phase : Parked Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1471419 Human Factors : Distraction Events Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Security Detector. Person : Flight Crew Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 While boarding, a young woman sat in the co pilot seat. We talked while the other passengers were boarding. She asked me if I had ever had problems with someone being, "naughty" in the co pilot seat. I asked her to clarify her question. She asked if anyone touched the controls. I explained that post 9/11, there is zero tolerance for anyone touching the controls and if someone did, I would have to report them to the police. During the taxi out she took out her phone and started to take a picture of herself with her hand on the yoke. I said, "No!" loudly and moved her hand. I told her do not touch the controls.
She sat quietly for the next 30 minutes or so but then as we were crossing the shoreline [nearing our destination], she again grabbed the yoke with her left hand and tried to take a picture with her phone in her right hand. I swatted her hand away again. As we approached [destination], I called in range to the gate and asked that a Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) meet my plane because a passenger has grabbed the controls twice. The ops agent assured me that he had called. I pulled up the the gate and saw several people standing by the double doors. I assumed one or more were police officers. The passengers disembarked and I followed behind, scanning for the LEO. There was no one. I went through the gate doors and looked there. Then I went to baggage claim and looked there. There were no police officers. After that, I rushed to our ticket counter to see if they were waiting there. Again, there was no one. I asked an employee for the manager and she said he was in his office. I found him there and asked where the police were. He was not aware of the situation. Two officers showed up about 5 min after I arrived at the manager's office. They said they got the call but had gone to the wrong airplane. I should have waited to pull Into parking until I was sure the LEO was there. Synopsis A twin engine piston pilot reported a passenger grabbed the controls multiple times after being told to stop and asked for Police to meet the flight. However, upon landing the Police went to the wrong gate.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.SingIe Value : O Environment Ceiling : CLR Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 3737-800 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Cabin Lighting : High Number Of Seats.Number : 179 Passengers On Board.Number : 179 Crew Size Flight Attendant. Number Of Crew : 4 Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Cabin Activity : Boarding Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Attendant : Off Duty Qualification.Flight Attendant : Current Experience. Flight Attendant. Total : 26 Experience. Flight Attendant.Airline Total : 26 Experience. Flight Attendant.Number Of Acft Qualified On Experience. Flight Attendant. Type : 15 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1471209 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken
Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Ambiguous Narrative: 1 Company Policy Human Factors Procedure During boarding, I noticed an elderly couple limping toward the exit row where I had already taken my seat. Sure enough, the elderly woman, who was also very large, had to hold onto every seat back as she slowly struggled down the aisle toward the exit row, then with difficulty and using every seatback/armrest as a crutch, hobbled into her window seat. Her husband also seemed physically impaired and walked incredibly slowly but somewhat less so than his wife. He then took his seat [with me sitting between them]. I struck up a conversation with them, asking if they wanted to sit together, and did they know that they were in an Emergency exit row. They declined my offer, but admitted that they booked the seats because of the extra legroom. I asked if the woman was 0k, and told her I'd noticed her difficulty walking--she admitted she had had knee surgery in the past. She did not have any noticeable braces. Again, I reminded them that they were in an emergency exit-they did not comment further. When the working flight attendants came to ask the 'are you willing and able to assist in an emergency' question, they both answered in the affirmative. I did bring up my observation to the crew working in economy later in the flight but they both said that they did not witness this couple's slow and belabored journey to the exit row. This was due to the fact that one of them was busy setting up the economy galley during most of the boarding time, and the other was stationed at the boarding door as a 'greeter'. So, for most of the boarding process, there was nobody in the aisle. In addition, they said that because they'd gotten an affirmative answer to the question, there was nothing they could do. I feel that if I had been working the flight, I might've run into the same problem-and have before. When/if the Flight Attendant (FA) does not actually see the person display something that looks like it could impede their ability to open the window exit quickly, such as limping/weakness/a brace/cast, portable oxygen container etc, it is difficult to remove someone from that row when they deny any such disability. I personally felt unsafe with this obviously physically impaired woman in charge of opening the exit that was closest to me. She was also so large that I doubt she could've either gotten out of the window quickly (she would definitely not have been able to open it-she tried, but literally could not bend over to pick up the soda can that fell off of her tray table) or even gotten out of the way so that others could get out quickly. I do know that the actual chances of having to evacuate are relatively slim, but that is beside the point. All of our safety training/knowledge and rules are in place not because of what *usually happens* but what *might happen* To that point, I feel that our (and the FAA's) directives on exit row restrictions are too lax and open to exploitation. People choose their seats online most Of the time and are obviously ignoring the pop-up warnings to not choose those seats if they are impaired in any way. They simply want the legroom--just as the elderly gentleman (who was actually wearing Velcro strap tennis shoes--he couldn't even tie his shoes!) admitted when I reminded them that they were in an emergency exit. The Customer Service (CS) agent, who also questions passengers seated in exit rows
during the ticket scanning process is under pressure to get flights out on time and are frequently overworked. As long as the passenger in question answers affirmatively to their question, again, they cannot remove them, unless there is an obvious brace, crutches etc. Many times, the overworked CS agents allow passengers like this to board in the hopes that the FAs will sort out the problem on-board--be it an obvious child in the exit row or someone impaired like this couple obviously was. It happens all the time. However, we flight attendants are also understaffed. On this particular flight, the 2 FAs working in First Class (FC) were busy setting the forward galley up for service and completing the comprehensive and time consuming pre-departure drink service--which takes the entire boarding process and taxi time to finish in most cases. Passengers often ask for second drinks before the flight takes off--sending the FA back and forth during boarding. We used to give just a small selection of OJ, water or champagne before push- back in FC which was far more conducive to having the time needed to complete cabin safety checks. I feel that because of the poor staffing we have on all of our flights--some worse than others--we are missing things like unsuitable passengers in the exit row and many other, perhaps more dangerous issues. I certainly do not feel safe with the way the regulations are being applied at my airline. The procedures seem to be insufficient in weeding out those who definitely shouldn't be in the exit rows, and we FAs, the trained safety professionals, have almost no power to be able to ensure a suitable person IS at the exit. We have also been told recently that our job is to "inform, not enforce" the regulations. (Not limited to exit rows.) Also, it must be mentioned that 'persons of size' should never be seated at an exit WINDOW, (door exit rows excluded) as they would not fit easily/quickly and would most likely impede others' egress in an emergency when fractions of a second count. I cannot fathom how it is actually allowed at my airline and how it is that we are required to provide an extension to those who cannot fit in the standard aircraft seatbelt. Synopsis Deadheading Flight Attendant reported the screening process for emergency exit row passengers which only requires an affirmative answer to the question "are you willing and able to assist in an emergency?" The passengers in question were obviously not able.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Ground : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : EMB ERJ 190/195 ER/LR Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Taxi Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1469450 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Anomaly.FIight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Illness Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Security Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Crew Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : Taxi Result.FIight Crew : Returned To Gate Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1
[The flight returned to the gate] with a level one threat after a passenger, complained to the F/A (Flight Attendant) that an adjacent passenger sitting was not putting her seatbelt on, acting suspiciously (placing her feet into the seat back pockets, leaning into her, leaning into the aisle) and was observed popping pills from an unknown prescription bottle. [The passenger] felt scared for her safety and the intoxicated passenger's safety and got up to advise the FA's as we were next for takeoff. A concern was raised about how many pills were consumed and about the safety of the passenger and her heavily medicated state. She was also observed to be pregnant which made the reporting passenger even more worried. I made the decision to return to the gate for observance by a CRO (Complaint Resolution Official), GSC (Ground Security Coordinator), the paramedics and the police. I advised dispatch that we had a level one threat and was assigned a return gate. It was later determined that she overdosed on the pills and was originally on her way for drug rehab. I want to put a kudos out to the flight attendants, my first officer, gate agents, supervisors and all that helped save this passenger's life by speaking up and responding quickly. Without voicing her ultimate concern and doing the right thing we would have potentially faced a more difficult time and possible diversion. When we have IROPs (Irregular Operations) like a return to gate, it can be very difficult to get the team going again. I must say that without my wonderful dispatcher working my flight and promptly getting on the fuelers, operations and coordinating ground support, we would have simply timed out. With the help of the dispatcher we were able to coordinate our extension with crew tracking, get the ATC desk manned with ATC to expedite our taxiing during expected taxi time of 39 minutes and get us airborne 14 minutes from pushback to take off. This saved us from having to go back to the gate and cause further delays/cancellation. On the downside we have got to get something done about our ground crew. We waited entirely too long for a ramp crew to guide us back to the gate. People sit around with not my "gateitis" instead of jumping in to assist. This is my second overdose this year. In both cases if we had more signage and awareness pertaining to observance of other passengers behaviors and speaking up when something doesn't look right, we could reduce our return to gates and medical diversions. So in conjunction with human trafficking maybe we can also expose the ugly truth with signage about the other elephant in the room, chronic prescription drug abuse and ways to identify those who might be under the influence? In this case passengers saw this lady popping prescription at the gate, while boarding, while taxing and even as she was being escorted off the airplane. Synopsis An Embraer ERJ-175 Captain reported they returned to the gate due to an intoxicated/ill passenger.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : IAH.Airport State Reference : TX Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : Marginal Weather Elements / Visibility Light : Dusk Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Ramp : IAH Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier : Thunderstorm Make Model Name : Medium Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1463822 Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1463549 Events Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy
Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Flight Crew Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Weather Narrative: 1 We landed in IAH just before a large storm system arrived at the airport. Upon taxi in we noticed the lightning really getting started and the flashing yellow lights on the terminals indicating the ramp closure. We auto-parked at our gate in accordance with the extreme weather guidelines before it even started raining. We made an announcement to the passengers about the ramp closure and the safety reasons for keeping the doors closed. The storm was moving incredibly slowly and after 1 hour the Flight Attendant (FA) did a full beverage service and handed out Stroopwafels that had been mis-catered on the airplane. After the second hour we [did] another full beverage service. The ramp opened up after approximately 3:15 from our ON time. We kept the cockpit door open and showed the lightning strikes on a website I found that tracks it and explained the ramp safety rules to the passengers. We had a couple of folks get frustrated, but overall the FA kept the mood calm. It helped that the APU worked and we could keep the cabin comfortable. I'm writing this [report] because ops was asking crews to pop open then reclose their doors in order to capture an IN time so they wouldn't go over the [time] limits. No one was allowed off the planes because of the ramp closure so this didn't meet the actual requirement to let the passengers off so a lot of us were advising crews to keep the doors shut. I feel that, in this case, [the Company] was trying to help their stats and lower the amount of planes that went over [time] limits so they didn't have to do so much paperwork. Tell Ops to "shove it" in the most polite terms possible. Narrative: 2 Exceeded max daily flight time due to reroutes and ground delay. Our first flight was delayed due to 2 reroutes. That put us in 47 min over block. Our second flight put us 1 min under block. Our third flight was to IAH. Upon landing in IAH, ramp was under ground stop due to lightning in vicinity of the airport. We had just landed ahead of weather that was advancing from the north. The [auto park system] was operational so we parked at our gate. Since the ramp was closed a gate agent couldn't come out and move the passenger bridge to allow the passengers to [be] deplaned. The storm passing over the airport was very slow moving so the ramp continued to be closed. The captain made the required PA announcements per the Flight Operations Manual and when new information became available. Due to the volume of planes on the ground, moving to a gate with a jet bridge was not an option. The required ACARS messages were sent as well. Eventually the ramp was re-opened and we were able to deplane. That put the block time for that flight at 4hr 34min versus the Ihr 3min that was scheduled. The delay on the ground exceeded 3hr. The biggest threat was the weather. The lightning around the airport closed the ramp. Since the gates at IAH consist of metal ramps, having passengers walk down them in a
thunderstorm poses obvious risk. Exceeding 3hr on the ground was done in the interest of safety to ramp personnel and the passengers. It's important to keep track of your duty time and flight time throughout the day. When you are coming up on a limit keep the company in the loop to get the situation resolved before it becomes an issue. Synopsis Air carrier flight crew reported a 3 hour 15 minute delay opening the aircraft door due to ramp closure for lightning strikes. As a result of this and prior reroutes, the crew exceeded the FAR allowable flight time.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B737 Next Generation Undifferentiated Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Cabin Lighting : High Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Cabin Activity : Boarding Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.FIight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1463630 Human Factors : Time Pressure Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Cabin Activity : Boarding Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.FIight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1463647 Human Factors : Time Pressure Events Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Security
Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate Result.GeneraI : Police / Security Involved Result.GeneraI : Flight Cancelled / Delayed Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Company Policy Narrative: 1 During boarding, Ops informed Flight Attendant A that there is a group of young men who seemed to be intoxicated that will be boarding the flight. She explains to FA A that he will "know who they are" when they come on. FA A asked Ops why they were allowing them to board and when Ops didn't provide an answer, FA A went to the Captain and asked the Captain why they were allowing them to board. The Captain then interrupted boarding and went down to talk with the Ops agent about the situation. Apparently, because of the events that followed, the Ops agent was able to satisfy the Captain's question. Two bachelor parties come on board, each smelling of alcohol. One party had 5-7 men (estimated) and the other 7-10 men and women (estimated). Both parties had been drinking several hours due to their flights being late or delayed. Ops positioned a policeman on the tarmac to "keep an eye" on the groups to make sure they didn't do anything wrong. Why even have that if Ops didn't know they were already intoxicated? Most men came on very loud, boisterous, obnoxious, profane and smelling of alcohol. There was no mistaking the smell. Additionally, the smaller of the two groups began to harass the FA B on boarding in the back, catcalling her and making comments out loud as she walked by them. Once on board, they began being loud and rude throughout the entire back part of the plane. We could hear them in the front after the FA A made the opening PA. At this time, FA B made her way to the front to say that she would not and could not work back there. She said we needed to take passengers off because of their loud behavior, rudeness and level Of intoxication. At this point the Ops Supervisor came on board and went to smooth over the situation and explain to the groups that there would be no alcohol served on the flight. As she starts talking to the groups, one man decided to mouth off to her and she quickly realized the situation and began steps to pull him off the plane. The man would not comply, so she called for a policeman. Two policemen then came on board and informed the man that he would not be flying to ZZZ and the man began to get even more upset while several of the friends in his group began to make even more noise about it being unjust that they are pulling the man from the flight. After a few minutes of the man arguing the man decided to come up to the front of the plane. Once in the front of the plane, Captain began talking to him and explaining to him why he was not going to ZZZ. The policeman then grabbed him by the arm and pulled him off the plane. Once the man was off the plane, the Captain then asked for the three Flight Attendants, the Ops Supervisor and himself to meet out on the ramp. The FA B stayed on the plane while the Captain asked what we wanted to do. All three of us said we wanted to take the groups off and, at least, did not want to serve during the 46 minute flight. The Captain informed us that we were going to do a water service with no alcohol. The Ops agent then said they needed to push the plane due to a terminator coming in. At
this point, Captain made a PA to the plane that we were only going to do a limited service of water and that no alcohol would be served. As the Captain finished his PA, he said "My name is John Doe. John Doe." As he finished, the B was at mid cabin counting and one of the passenger yelled "John Doe is a jerk!" at the top of his voice. B immediately turned around and tried to determine who said this. Noticing that the man we thought said it was getting elbowed by his girlfriend and being told to be quiet. This caused another stir and at this point we wanted both groups pulled off for good. Another Ops Sup came on board (who told us she had seen them drinking for several hours in the airport) and went to confront both groups again. Without being able to positively identify who the person was, we decided to then switch positions so that the B would not be forced to work in the back with all of these men. 4 policemen then came to determine who we were wanting to remove from the plane. The lead police officer then informed each group that if anything happened on the way to ZZZ that they would be back at our departure airport and having to deal with him upon return that night. Ultimately, the Captain and Ops made the decision to let them all fly. This was against our wishes and judgment. The plane then took off and landed in ZZZ without another incident. We need to stop being scared of lawsuits from intoxicated passengers and have the Ops Agents do their jobs! We can't pass this on to us as we are in a metal tube at 38,000 feet. This situation should have been handled by Ops the way they are instructed to do. Failure to handle the situation in the terminal led to a bunch of people thinking they can say and do whatever they want and not have any repercussions. This entire event will never happen again as long as I work for this Company. I will never let it go again like we did last night. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis 3737 Flight Attendants reported questioning Company Operations and the Captain's decision to depart with a group of intoxicated passengers.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : MMMX.Airport State Reference : FO Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Large Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Component Aircraft Component : Company Operations Manual Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Improperly Operated Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Cabin Activity : Safety Related Duties Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.FIight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1462045 : Confusion Human Factors Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Training / Qualification Human Factors : : Situational Awareness Human Factors Human Factors : Distraction Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Other Breakdown.Party2 : Ground Personnel Communication Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft
Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Cabin Activity : Safety Related Duties Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.FIight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1460881 Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Training / Qualification Human Factors : Distraction Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Ground Personnel Events Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Other Person Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate Result.General : Release Refused / Aircraft Not Accepted Result. General : Flight Cancelled / Delayed Result.FIight Crew : Became Reoriented Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 During boarding I was not informed that we had an emotional support animal. During the flight I realized there was a crate under a passenger seat. I then asked the C flight attendant if she was aware about the animal. Her answer was "no". I then took a look at the paperwork that was given to me and I realized there was a code "ESAN" which we figured out meant emotional support animal. We were not aware of what kind of animal but since it was listed we figured the proper procedures had been reviewed prior to boarding. Which is normal protocol for any animal that boards our aircraft. When we landed in Mexico City and going through customs we then realized it was a monkey in the crate. The C flights attendant asked the owner if monkeys were allowed in Mexico to which the owner responded yes. That she has traveled with the monkey before and it's never been a problem. The following morning we arrived at our gate for our departure and we see the family at the gate. They had been detained in Mexico because of the monkey. After arriving we had some ground time. Before our next flight we were notified that our arriving aircraft had been quarantined because of the monkey. As you can see this was a huge inconvenience not only for the family but for us as crew and the airline. The lack of communication and knowledge has caused major problems and I this situation should have never happened. Either this airport needs more training or they need to put agents that have the knowledge regarding international laws. More communication from ground operations. I know we were running late and the rush to
board the flight was their first priority but communication and knowledge regarding international laws should be a top priority as well. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis Air carrier flight attendants, with a Mexico City destination, reported an emotional service monkey on board the aircraft which caused the plane to be quarantined.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : A320 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Taxi Number Of Seats.Number : 148 Passengers On Board. Number : 140 Crew Size Flight Attendant. Number Of Crew : Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Cabin Activity : Safety Related Duties Reporter Organization : Air Carrier 3 Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant In Charge Function.Flight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.Flight Attendant : Current Experience. Flight Attendant. Total : 28 Experience. Flight Attendant.Airline Total : 28 Experience. Flight Attendant.Number Of Acft Qualified On Experience. Flight Attendant. Type : 75 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1459683 Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Cabin Activity : Safety Related Duties Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.Flight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1460078 Events Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y
When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : Police / Security Involved Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 As we started initial descent I was standing at IL and a passenger came up and told me she needed to get off of the plane. I explained to her we were still flying though almost there and I told her she needed to return to her seat. She did with no incident. I saw her to her seat and she fastened her seatbelt. I asked her to keep her seatbelt fastened and told her we would be landing soon. I then walked to the rear of the aircraft and told Flight Attendant (FA) 2 my flying partner, to keep an eye on her and I explained what she had said. FA 2 passed the word on to FA 3. I returned to my duties in first class. The passenger in 3E asked if he could help, and I told hm everything was fine but yes, he could help me if she returned and I needed him. Approximately 15 minutes later, during final descent, I heard some yelling and saw the passenger coming up the aisle. I stopped her at row 7 and told her she need to return to her seat as we were landing. She let me walk her to her seat, I was holding her at the elbows from behind, as I could see she was unsteady. I sat her and fastened her seatbelt. I then noticed she was becoming agitated, bothering the passengers around her and trying to expose [herself]. At that point we were landing but I felt the safest course of action was to sit someone with her to ensure she did not touch anyone nor try to get up. I enlisted the help of a passenger, a male flight attendant. I removed the passenger next to [the individual] and put the passenger there. We agreed he could keep her calm until landed. While walking back up to my jumpseat I could hear a commotion and returned to row 30, where [this individual] was clearly increasingly agitated, slapping away attempts to keep her seated and calm, She then proceeded to expose herself again and I decided it would be best if I sat next to her. I asked [the passenger who tried to help] to take my jumpseat and perform door landing duties including door disarming and such when needed. I notified FA 3 what I was doing. All of this was happening during sterile cockpit. Upon landing I rang the call button and told my flying partner FA 2 to call the cockpit, explain what was happening and have security meet the aircraft. All the while I am literally holding [the woman in question] down, speaking quietly to her, trying to de-escalate her agitation. She repeatedly tried to stand, touch the passenger in 30F inappropriately, and climb over him and out the window. She continued to expose herself and I repeatedly told her to keep her top on and I kept trying to cover her. This was all physically almost impossible but I tried my best to calm her down and get to stop touching other passengers and saying inappropriate things. She seemed to respond. Upon arrival at the gate FA 3 made all announcements for me, including for the passengers to remain seated so security could enter the aircraft. When they opened the door no one was there, only an agent, no security. We sat, with me holding [the woman] and trying to keep her calm, for 10 minutes and no one came. Finally the captain made an announcement that we were not going to hold the passengers hostage since security did not show up and they could leave. It was getting increasingly difficult to hold [the woman].
The passengers got up and started to deplane and one security person arrived. He came back to row 30 and proceeded to attempt to walk [the woman] up the aisle. She became agitated and began taking off her shirt again and exposing herself. I pulled her shirt down, told her to stay covered, and covered her with my arms as best I could. She fought security and I asked him to let go and I would help her walk up. This calmed her. When we got into the jetway there was no one there to help up. I was holding [the woman] as she could barely stand. And the First Officer (FO), was there and I told him we needed the police and paramedics. He told me he was a police officer. She became agitated when he looked at her so he turned his back to her. He stood strong so I had support and she did not realize he was a man. (Men increased her hysteria). I held her upright by the wall with his help while we waited for the police and paramedics. The FO was such a huge help as my concern was that she would run back onto the aircraft and he prevented her from doing so without her realizing what was happening. About 20 minutes later the police finally arrived. They were able to get [the woman] into a wheelchair and took her in to the airport. She did not know where she was, thought she was in Dallas, and repeatedly tried to stand. The paramedics finally arrived and put her on a gurney to go to the hospital. This situation escalated quickly during sterile cockpit and we notified the captain as soon as physically possible, which was after touchdown. My concern as this incident unfolded was the safety of the aircraft and our passengers, including [the woman]. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis Two A320 flight attendants reported an encounter with a passenger and their efforts to keep her calm and in her seat until the aircraft landed safely.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Cabin Activity : Service Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.Flight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1458285 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Distraction Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown. Party2 : Other Events Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Security Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Other / Unknown Detector. Person : Flight Attendant When Detected : In-flight Result.General : Police / Security Involved Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 During initial beverage after takeoff, misconduct Passenger using excessive offensive vulgar language, showing extremely offensive, aggressive, belligerent, unstable and abnormal behavior towards multiple working crew members. Passenger using excessive vulgar language while I served him multiple beverages. After double check with him if there is anything I can get for him, I politely move on to next customers. He suddenly [started] getting extremely angry, unstable and aggressive. He was yelling in multiple vulgar language about the coffee doesn't have the "thing". I explain to him that I can't understand, He start severe yelling loudly and aggressively with unstable emotion, offensive and belligerent using vulgar language. He lost control. My flying partner and myself advise him to calm down but he continue the abnormal aggressive behavior. We report to Aft-purser and she told us [the] passenger have been very aggressive and verbal
abusive using vulgar language towards her and other working flight attendants. That was even before we first meet him, and he was extremely unstable and showing abnormal behavior. The other Flight Attendant had already reported to the cockpit captain in regards and we were told to monitor his condition but not to response to his verbally abusive vulgar language and unstable abnormal behavior. Synopsis A Flight Attendant reported a verbally abusive and apparently emotional unstable passenger became belligerent and aggressive.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.SingIe Value : O Environment Weather Elements / Visibility : Thunderstorm Weather Elements / Visibility : Hail Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : A320 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1458121 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Door Area Cabin Activity : Deplaning Cabin Activity : Safety Related Duties Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant In Charge Qualification.FIight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1458990 Events Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Flight Crew
Detector. Person : Ground Personnel Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate When Detected : Taxi Result.GeneraI : Flight Cancelled / Delayed Result.Flight Crew : Returned To Gate Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 We pushed off gate late after incurring several delays (late inbound aircraft and ramp closures due to lightning). Upon taxiing out thunderstorms delayed the flight from departing for approximately two hours. While number three for takeoff flight received ACARS message from Dispatch to return to gate for inspection due to possible hail damage. After arriving at the gate Captain asked First Officer to contact operations asking for Complaint Resolution Officer due to unruly passenger. Observation of passenger indicated he was extremely belligerent, agitated, and was filming crew threatening legal action. His behavior was becoming increasingly hostile and unpredictable upsetting other passengers and making flight attendants fearful for their safety. Captain made the decision to call for law enforcement to guard against any physical violence escalation. After the Conflict Resolution person arrived the entire aircraft was deplaned (hail inspection) and unruly passenger placed on later flight at crews request. Law enforcement never appeared despite Captain's request from CSR and supervisor. This is a clear indication of overriding Captain's authority, responsibility, and decision to request law enforcement. The Captain now does not have the confidence law enforcement will be called when necessary. Narrative: 2 Flight was delayed due to weather. Held at gate due to ramp closure twice. Finally taxied out, sat on taxiway with bad weather and a wheels up time. Was away from the gate for maybe around two hours. (I do not have the brake release to brake set time). Hail pelted A320, we were instructed to return to gate Returned to gate, agent opened aircraft door and disappeared without giving passengers instructions or me, the purser. Captain told passengers they could get off the aircraft. Later found out agents at the gate were working [a different] flight at that gate but we used the gate so [they] gate changed. At least one agent should have stayed at that gate with our flight and should have instructed passengers on what to do, since we had been on the taxiway for so long and now were back at the gate with a mechanical. The agent just opened the aircraft door and left. They should not have done that after we were out on the ramp for an extended amount Of time and we did not know how long the delay was going to be, passengers did not know what to do. So the passengers started coming up front to ask me questions. I could not answer the questions since the agent did not give us any instructions at that opening of the door. Captain went up the jet bridge to help an elderly non English speaking passenger because we had no wheelchairs meet the flight and the agent left us without me being able to tell her we needed a wheelchair. So the captain helped the elderly woman up the jet bride and told me he would also get an agent to come back down
to instruct the passengers, the agent never should have left us after she opened the door, did not even tell me and everyone else she was now going to go over to the next gate, so the captain went up to find an agent to instruct the passengers. At this point a passenger came up to door IL where I was, turned on his phone and started videotaping me saying he was recording and this was going to go to court. Mr. X was agitated and appeared to be crazy. I looked at the first officer, and told him to go get an agent immediately and get this Mr. X off the plane as he made me fear for my safety and felt threatened. So the first officer left the plane to get a Customer Service Representative (CSR), as the captain had not come back yet. Now it was just 3 flight attendants, all by ourselves dealing with quite a few upset passengers up by door IL and I stared to fear for our safety as if anything happened to one of us, especially by Mr. X, we could not get off the plane with a plane full of passengers and we had no assistance. A CSR supervisor and the captain at some point, finally came back down to the plane and both had instructed us they had called for police assistance for Mr. X but [the company] would not send the police to the gate to get Mr. X off the plane. It is very unsafe for us to not be able to have police come to our assistance when it is needed. How unsafe and negligent of [our company to] not allow the police to come down when a captain who is responsible for his aircraft, crew and passengers, calls for police assistance. This is the only tool a crew has to remove an irate, videotaping passenger who won't comply with crew member instructions and stop videotaping us. Videotaping of crew needs to be illegal. We felt unsafe and threatened. A CSR customer service passenger handling supervisor finally came down and started talking to Mr. X, then another person came down, then another person came down. Mr. X at first got off the plane to talk to the first supervisor, but got back on the plane and would not get off the plane when another supervisor woman wanted to talk to him so she got on the plane to talk to him, we was still videotaping saying a bunch of stuff and that this video was going to court. Mr. X kind of had her up against door IR still videotaping her and saying things in a threatening tone but I could not quite hear what he was saying. So we ended up deplaning the whole plane so we could get Mr. X off and also because I think [the company] was unsure of the delay because they had to check the aircraft for hail damage. Finally we had some help down on the plane. So number 1. When we returned to the gate a CSR should have stayed with the gate, and made sure an announcement telling the passengers what to do should have been made because those not getting any instructions made just about every passenger angry. It's also not safe to not have a CSR at the gate with a delayed aircraft in the event of an emergency. Number 2. A CSR or someone should have come back down to the gate much quicker and instructed the passengers instead of leaving just the flight attendants on the aircraft being put into a potentially unsafe situation. There were two Federal Air Marshals on our flight they got off and I asked to please also get a CSR to the plane as soon as possible. Number 3. Under no circumstances should a captain be denied police assistance when he asks for it as it is a huge safety risk to his plane, crew and customers. It was an unsafe situation and very bad customer service. Synopsis
A320 Captain and the Purser involved reported a return to the gate to inspect for hail damage at which point a passenger became irate and was removed from the flight.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B737-800 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1457917 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.FIight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Electronic Device Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 While the passengers were boarding, the Number 1 Flight Attendant told me a passenger yelled at her in front of the first class passengers. She wanted the passenger removed. I was hesitant thinking it was just an outburst. I received another report from a male flight
attendant saying she wanted help with her bag. The flight attendant told her he does not put passenger bags in the overhead. She told him [this company] does not want to help her because she is black. I told him just tell her to behave. We pushed back from the gate. I got a call saying the passenger would not turn off the cell phone and she was calling to make a complaint. I told him, 0k, I am going to make a PA. During the PA I said, if the passenger using the phone does not turn it Off we were going to go back to the gate. I didn't hear another complaint until we were deplaning. I was told she was complaining and trying to get other passengers riled up during the flight. She was recording the flight attendants during their service. When she was getting off she said it was the worst flight she had ever been on, and what kind of landing was that? The first officer said she was cursing and complaining all the way into the building. I was worried about an incident like the flight where the passenger refused to deplane and was dragged out. After the flight when I heard she was accusing [this company] of racism, recording the crew, and the crew saying she was looking for a confrontation it confirmed my suspicion. Maybe the woman was looking for compensation or celebrity status. A first officer gave me a good suggestion the same day. He said, if the passenger does not deplane, everyone must deplane. When everyone gets off. Allow everyone on except the unruly passenger. I think after 9/11 the passengers were very respectful of the crews. Since then, it has diminished. Synopsis 3737 Captain reported they had an uncooperative passenger who was apparently attempting to provoke a reaction and receive compensation.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B737-800 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1456370 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Detector. Person : Flight Crew Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate Result.GeneraI : Flight Cancelled / Delayed Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Mid boarding, #3 FA came into the cockpit to inform me of a first class passenger that confronted him in the boarding area upset that the flight was delayed. This same passenger now seated in first class was continuing to verbally harass the crew and
complain about the flight being late. #3 FA came to the cockpit a second time to report that the same passenger was now taking phone photos and or video and getting more upset despite #1 FA and #3 FA's efforts to deescalate. I took a screen shot using my iPad of the recent company policy letter concerning social media issues and company policy in dealing with and diffusing it. Both #1 and #3 read the pertinent parts of the letter. I asked for the agent to not close the door, radioed ops for a customer service or complaint resolution supervisor to please come down to the aircraft. A gentleman showed up very quickly. Since this had quickly escalated to a level I and non-compliant passenger disruption I asked that the passenger be removed. Synopsis 8737 Captain reported a first class passenger was verbally harassing the crew and complaining about the flight being late. The Captain elected to have the passenger removed from the flight.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Widebody, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience.FIight Crew. Total : 13157 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 8039 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1453417 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Confusion Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown. Party2 : Other Events Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Security Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Detector. Person : Flight Crew Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate Result.GeneraI : Flight Cancelled / Delayed
Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.FIight Crew : FLC complied w / Automation / Advisory Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 FAA ASI (Aviation Safety Inspector) requests jumpseat ride to an international destination. He is an avionics tech attempting to enroute check us for a free ride to an international destination. ASI inspector is sporting a beard/goatee. I informed him of the FOM (Flight Operations Manual) and explained the grooming code of conduct. I asked him to take a seat in back. He refused. My FO and I were then directly threatened with losing our licenses to fly. He said "The last pilot that attempted to have hm removed had his license revoked by the FAA and never flew again." I immediately called for Supervisor help. We were being threatened at a high level. The Supervisor came to our support and we both sincerely appreciate his efforts. He suggested complete removal. We had a choice. Either the ASI leaves, we leave or the ASI moves to a seat in back. At this point we were pushing CCO (Crew Critical Offtime) times and if we removed the ASI from the airplane both I and my FO would have to follow protocol and file reports before departure to protect us. This would have cancelled the flight and caused a huge disruption to our operation. At this point the distraction and disruption was elevated high enough to walk off. My FO and I decided the easiest and quickest recovery of the operation was to seat the ASI in the back and go. The ASI called his supervisor who confirmed leaving the cockpit and take a seat in the cabin. The ASI delayed our flight by having to go on to the ramp to find a signal for his cell phone to get hold of his office. No crewmember should EVER be threatened like this from an ASI. This was blatant disregard for our FOM and Captain authority. Synopsis An air carrier Captain reported refusing an FAA Air Safety Inspector's request for a jumpseat because his facial hair violated the company grooming code. The Inspector threatened the crew with license revocation, but a Supervisor verified the crew's actions and allowed the Inspector in the cabin.
Time / Day Date : 201705 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 35000 Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B737 Next Generation Undifferentiated Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass A : ZZZ Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 169 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1452419 Events Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1
This event played out over the course of about 45 minutes. It started with one of the Flight Attendants calling the cockpit saying a Passenger had grabbed her by the lapel of her shirt and pulled her towards him demanding to know if the American Flag pin on her collar was an ICE (Immigrations and Customs Service) pin. The suspect was aggressive towards the Flight Attendant. After she called, we went in lockdown and I made the assumption and told the FAs and FO that this was a Level 1 Threat. I notified Dispatch and began coordinating our arrival to ZZZ. After several minutes, and after looking at the Ops Binder, I realized that it was in fact a Level 2 Threat. The suspect continued to use aggressive language towards both female Flight Attendants but did not become more physically aggressive after the initial confrontation. The FAs told me that two Company Ramp Personnel were seated in front of the suspect and they had offered any and all assistance in case the suspect became more aggressive. We were only about 30 minutes from ZZZ when this started; the FO continued his flying duties and I coordinated with the FAs, Dispatch, Center and Ground Operations at ZZZ. It was a busy time for both Of us and there was weather in the area to deviate around that added to the conditions at hand. The FO did a masterful job flying and talking with ATC, but I felt as though we were in and out of the green and yellow a number of times. In the descent, we decided to [advise ATC Of the situation]. This really reduced the workload and distraction as ATC gave us direct ZZZ with deviations as necessary. Operating on the edge of the green and yellow, over a period Of time, has a physiological effect that I never saw before. First off, there was an increased level of stress, not knowing if this guy was going to lose it and become combative, in which case would have meant an immediate divert, and in that case, would we then be intercepted and escorted to our destination. This along with the coordination quite obviously gets the adrenaline going. With that said, the one error that I know I made was taxiing about half-way into the Safety Zone before I realized there was no Marshaller in place to guide us in. I stopped, waited for him to come and the rest of the taxi in was uneventful. Synopsis 3737 Captain reported a Flight Attendant had been grabbed by her shirt by an aggressive passenger. The Captain followed the procedures for a level 2 threat.
Time / Day Date : 201705 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : A320 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Taxi Cabin Lighting : High Number Of Seats.Number : 150 Passengers On Board. Number : 150 Crew Size Flight Attendant. Number Of Crew : 5 Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Cabin Activity : Safety Related Duties Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Experience. Flight Attendant. Total : 2 Experience. Flight Attendant.AirIine Total : 2 Experience. Flight Attendant.Number Of Acft Qualified On : 7 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1452377 Events Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Security Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y Narrative: 1 After push back during the safety demo. A passenger rang a call light in the last row. Flight attendants paused the safety demonstration and I went to see about the passenger. A woman sitting grabbing her bags stood up and said she needs to get up. I asked what her issue was and she just repeated herself then asked to get off the flight. I informed the
other flight attendants and we contacted the captain. The plane went back to the gate to have the woman deplane. She retrieved her bags and began making her way to the back galley. I directed her back to the front where she walked off and the captain stopped her to ask questions. He asked for her boarding pass and where she was coming from, if she had checked bags etc and she was hesitating to answer. We looked up her information and found that she was traveling from Frankfurt and did have checked bags. The captain asked if we were comfortable keeping her bags on as it was a domestic flight and we declined. Her bags were unloaded before we departed again. This was the second instance of a situation like such in the same day. There seems to be a pattern with passengers asking to deplane at the very last minute with little to no explanation as of recent. Crew members were uncomfortable with their luggage remaining on board. I believe situations like this, airlines should be required to make sure all bags on board are accounted for when a passenger exits and also have checked bags removed whether international or domestic. I submitted a separate report for another situation like this on the same day, different flight. Synopsis Air carrier Flight Attendant reported that after push back a passenger requested to disembark the aircraft without claiming their luggage.
Time / Day Date : 201705 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Daylight Ceiling : CLR Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : A319 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Cabin Lighting : High Number Of Seats.Number : 128 Passengers On Board.Number : 118 Crew Size Flight Attendant. Number Of Crew : 5 Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Cabin Activity : Boarding Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Experience. Flight Attendant. Total : 2 Experience. Flight Attendant.Airline Total : 2 Experience. Flight Attendant.Number Of Acft Qualified On : 7 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1452376 Events Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : Pre-flight Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Company Policy Narrative: 1 Prior to door closure, a passenger asked to get off the flight with not much of an explanation. The pilots requested to have the passenger's bags removed from the aircraft and agents /operations denied the request as it was a domestic flight and they wished to avoid a delay. There seems to be a pattern with passengers asking to deplane at the very last minute with little to no explanation as of recent. Crew members were uncomfortable with their luggage remaining on board. I believe situations like this, airlines should be required to make sure all bags on board are accounted for when a passenger exits and checked bags removed whether international or domestic. Synopsis A Flight Attendant reported that a passenger requested to get off the airplane without claiming their luggage.
Time / Day Date : 201705 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 10869 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 1578 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1451832 Human Factors : Workload Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 200 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 1046 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1450753 Human Factors : Workload Events Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Detector. Person : Flight Attendant When Detected : Pre-flight
Result.GeneraI : Flight Cancelled / Delayed Result.GeneraI : Police / Security Involved Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 The lead flight attendant informed the flight deck that she had a passenger that was not complying with her instructions about a seat assignment (she needed to place a passenger in his row, to accommodate another seating issue) and was verbally abusive and non- compliant toward her. The passenger had already attempted to move himself to a business class seat and then insisted that the entire row in economy was his (even though he had only purchased one seat). The Captain asked her to keep us informed if she could not resolve the issue. A short period of time later, she returned stating that the passenger continued to be non-compliant and continued his verbal abuse which included cussing at other passengers. The Captain decided to confront the passenger personally and requested assistance [from] the gate agents. After genuine efforts to reason with the passenger, the Captain received the same non-compliant response and verbal abuse. The passenger refused to answer the Captain's questions and stated to the Captain he would have to "drag" him off. And what was described to me as pleading/begging to be dragged off. At this point, we brought the [Operations Manager] into the loop and requested the local ground security to be notified. We declared a Threat Level One and reviewed that procedure. The [Operations Manager] was first questioning if we could attempt to reason with the passenger, we stated that that had already been attempted for over 30 minutes by the inflight crew, gate agents and the Captain. The Captain had already made the decision to remove him at this time because the passenger would not comply with his instructions and continued his verbal abuse to passengers around him. He was a clear safety threat, as well as at this point, surrounding passengers were not comfortable with him staying on the flight. This passenger knew exactly what to do (though I don't know if it was premeditated) he immediately used his new-found empowerment to tell the Captain he would not comply and basically begged, "drag me off". This is a provocation that cannot [be allowed to continue] in the future. The whole crew, agents and [Operations Manager] contemplated how to handle the situation and continued various attempts to instruct the passenger to leave the aircraft. The [Operations Manager] did not want to deplane the aircraft for fear of a further delay, but later agreed after discussions with local agents, it was the only option. In the meantime, the other passengers began to become extremely agitated and anxious. There were reports that some passenger offered to remove him and another woman came to the cockpit with her concerns of potential violence erupting and that she did not want her daughter to witness any more Of the ordeal. As the onboard passengers became more agitated, more and more were leaving their seats to interject, observe and take photos and video. We received a report from a flight attendant that "we were close to 'losing control' of the cabin". An announcement was made for everyone to be seated and was successful. The plan was now to deplane everyone (and the local police wanted the flight attendants to deplane as well for their own safety) and then local police would remove him. The deplaning began and it was reported that the passenger kicked a girl and cussed at just
about everyone as they left and many passengers had derogatory comments toward the passenger as they deplaned. Since the passenger kicked a girl during the deplaning, we declared Threat Level two. But again, we as a crew were helpless to remove him without some sort of physical act. He was able to do as he pleased because I feel he felt "empowered" by [recent industry incidents]. Later in this process, after the police boarded the deplaned aircraft, the [Operations Manager] instructed us "do not let the local police touch him". As it turns out, I believe the local police were reluctant to physically remove him due to jurisdiction. The local police later produced paperwork that they requested the Captain to sign as a release for them to remove him. The [Operations Manager] informed the Captain to not sign anything. As time rolled on, and the situation continued to [escalate], the passenger attempted to negotiate a deal with the gate agents. He demanded a boarding pass in his hands on another flight before he would voluntarily leave the aircraft. I felt at this point [the passenger was] basically holding the aircraft hostage with his empowerment, and attempting to negotiate a deal, would qualify as a hijacking and would require the situation to be considered Threat Level 4. The cockpit was not aware of this negotiation attempt until later, and the gate agents refused to honor his requests. Fortunately, after hours of this very tense situation, [a] Flight Attendant pleaded with him one last time, and his approach was effective and successful. He told the passenger, "we are going nowhere, things are only going to get worse for you, just grab your bag and follow me". Amazingly, the passenger decided to leave voluntarily. Though in his last act of defiance, he shoved [the flight attendant] as he left the airplane. Again, Threat Level Two. This is not a situation our flight crews, gate agents, customers, [company], nor the industry should allow to continue or escalate. This event was of grave safety concern to me and the other crew members in the aftermath. This is a safety issue that needs to be addressed and reviewed for future protocol. This event cannot be ignored in the best interest waiting for social media to die down, but I feel it is a situation that will continue and could escalate into a negative event for [our company] (which this one nearly did) and more importantly, a safety hazard for our crews and passengers. I would describe this event as basically an "emergency" type event on the ground, however none of the SOP with the crew has been addressed toward that policy by the company. But neither one has been addressed by Management to this date. The Captain did submit an IOR (Irregular Operations Report) and with this incident, maybe there will be a debrief and review, but I felt after the passenger was off the airplane, we may have too quickly resumed status quo with a recovery plan. This was a long and tense ordeal. I felt the crew did a tremendous job, though not easy, of re-focusing, re-boarding and operating the aircraft to an alternate station. This is what we are trained to do, but in cases like this one, where we don't have hind sighted guidance, we may want to assess our state of mind as crew members before we continue on in an immediate fashion. Also, I have no idea what this passenger did other than booking himself on a later flight and attempting to check-in. He violated US Federal laws, but I don't think anything will be done, which is a concern toward potential future events. I think something should be done toward procedures and protocol for an empowered passenger who chooses to refuse to follow direction or leave the aircraft on command. And who uses provocation of the crew and agents to physically remove them. For the concern of the future safety of our crews, passengers, and the goodwill of [the company]. Me
personally, in hindsight and with the aftermath of finally returning home a day later, I felt the same feeling I would have if I handled a different serious aircraft emergency. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis Air Carrier flight crew reported a passenger misconduct issue delayed departure when the passenger refused to deplane voluntarily.
Time / Day Date : 201705 Place Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Ground : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Taxi Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Cabin Jumpseat Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.Flight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1449276 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Attendant Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : Taxi Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Immediately after landing a customer from the back of the aircraft stood up with his bag and started to walk up the aisle. I made an announcement and advised customers we were on an active taxiway and to please return to your seat with your seat belts securely fastened until we arrive at the gate and seat belt Sign is turned off. The customer
continued up the aisle and I made the announcement again. The customer continued up the aisle and stopped at the bulkhead of coach and I once again made the announcement. He then continued up to the IL door and said he had a tight connection and would not go back to his seat. I then called the Captain to advise and the Captain said, "That's Weird". No other comment from the Captain as he continued to taxi the aircraft without making an announcement or stopping the aircraft. Synopsis Air carrier Flight Attendant reported a passenger would not remain seated during taxi to the gate. The Captain was advised, but continued to taxi.
Time / Day Date : 201705 Local Time Of Day Environment Ceiling : CLR Aircraft Reference : X 1801-2400 Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 3777 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Cruise Number Of Seats.Number : 364 Passengers On Board.Number : 344 Crew Size Flight Attendant. Number Of Crew Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Cabin Activity : Service Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.FIight Attendant : Current Experience. Flight Attendant. Total : 5 Experience. Flight Attendant.Airline Total : 1 Experience. Flight Attendant.Number Of Acft Qualified On : 6 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1449060 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Attendant Communication Breakdown. Party2 : Other Events Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : Police / Security Involved Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors
Narrative: 1 I was working as number 5 in flight. During beverage and food service in Economy Class, passenger requested a chicken [meal]. I served it and mentioned how much was it. They replied back by saying they were supposed to be in Rome flight, that they missed the flight and also was booked in Business Class. Customer mentioned that they already paid Business Class fare and since now is seated in Economy Class, I should not charge for the food. I politely ask for the full name and check my name list. Since the name was not on the list, I explained that I can't compliment a meal. Customer started to complain about how bad Customer Service is and will write me to the company if I charged for the food. I apologize for what happened in earlier flight but I did not have all the information and suggested that they can write feedback to the company online. Customer seems to be more agitated and refused to listen and continue verbal abuse to me, saying that will make a big case about this incident and make sure the social media get my name and the company Will fire me. At this moment, I realize that the situation will escalate, so I decided to remove myself from the situation by saying "Please enjoy your wrap for now and we can have this conversation after the service" and proceed to the next row. Customer now demanded a cheese plate. I told her that I can't compliment for this, and explained even for upgraded customer I can only compliment I food item and I alcoholic beverage. Customer harassed me again with words, and when I turn away, that's when they grabbed my arm and yanked my sleeve. I told the customer not to touch me. They let go of me and said "You are very rude. I am not done with you! I want my cheese plate!" They tried to grab me again on my arm but this time I managed to avoid her and I told the customer again for the second time, not to touch me. I proceed to serve the rest of the customers until the first service is finished and report this incident to my Purser. I did not engage anymore for the rest of the flight and with the Purser decision I swap and worked at the other aisle. I also report this incident to the Captain. The Captain decided to call for the Customer Service Supervisor and the Police. They documented this incident, no charges file against the passenger. Bruise found after I got back home, in the area where the passenger grabbed me. Synopsis Air Carrier Flight Attendant reported an issue with a passenger during meal service.
Time / Day Date : 201704 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZZZ.ARTCC State Reference : US Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Widebody Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 3 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass A : ZZZ Component : 1 Aircraft Component : Pax Seat Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Component : 2 Aircraft Component : Electrical Wiring & Connectors Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Improperly Operated Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Cabin Activity : Service Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.FIight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1447118 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Distraction Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Attendant Communication Breakdown. Party2 : Other Events
Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Detector. Person : Flight Crew Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : In-flight Result.General : Maintenance Action Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.FIight Crew : Became Reoriented Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Passenger during initial service notified me that he had been shocked twice by the armrest Power Supply Unit (PSU). The unit had been pulled out so the wires were showing. I asked if he needed medical assistance and he refused. I moved him to [a different seat] and taped the armrest. He complained over and over that he was having pain, but continued to refuse medical assistance. He said he was writing an email to my airline and was going to sue. I noticed that he was consuming alcohol and appeared to be inebriated. His eyes were red and his speech slurry. He had previously told me that he didn't have a card to pay for drinks only cash. He then said that he had paid some passenger to use their cards for his drinks. I slowed down his drinking explaining that we needed to monitor his possible medical situation. He became increasingly agitated and repetitive despite me trying to de-escalate the situation. He was following me around and came into the galley to video me. When I said that wasn't allowed he pushed me on the shoulder. I went up to the purser and we called a level one. That was the end of my contact with him. Synopsis A Flight Attendant reported an inebriated passenger claimed to have been shocked by exposed passenger service unit wires, but refused medical attention and became increasingly agitated and aggressive.
Time / Day Date : 201705 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Ground : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : A319 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Taxi Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.FIight Crew : Captain Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1447064 Analyst Callback : Attempted Events Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : Taxi Result.General : Flight Cancelled / Delayed Result.FIight Crew : Returned To Gate Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1
Checklists were completed and just before takeoff the #3 FA called and said he was having an escalating problem with three young women. They refused to switch off their PEDs and were very loud, profane and abusive to FA and passengers around them. Their language included references to "bad publicity" and "what are you going to do" etc. Upon the #3 FA's request I returned to the gate. While holding some distance from the gate waiting for three pushed-back aircraft to clear the taxiway, I spoke to the #1 FA to coordinate the gate return. She had not received full details from the #3 FA and I asked her to go to the rear of the aircraft and assess the problem. She confirmed the #3 FA's assessment, but said that after she talked to them, the three women were now apologetic and more subdued. She had separated the three, and told me that they all promised to behave for the rest of the flight. Based upon her input I cancelled the gate return and we took off and flew to destination with no issues. I observed several passengers thanking the #1 FA profusely as they exited the aircraft. I was last off the aircraft, and exiting the gate I saw all 3 FA's standing at the podium talking to the gate agents. I was informed that the three problem passengers had insisted on speaking to a supervisor as soon as they exited the jetway. I advised the three FAs to file individual passenger disturbance reports, and I am filing this report. I might add that in my preflight FA briefings, as on this flight, I now include the topic of passenger disturbance and emphasize following the Flight Manual and FA manual to the letter. The three women were very clearly trying to provoke an incident worthy of [social media] and the news media. Their language included "bad publicity" and "what are you going to do" and other such references. I have no doubt that this was an attempted copycat incident in light of the spate of recent events on several different airlines. I asked the #1 FA whether she could smell alcohol on the three women but received a negative reply. Enforce existing Federal Law and rules on aircraft consistently and even-handedly. Make it known that passenger misconduct will not be tolerated. Many or most of the recent type of events can and should be resolved at the gate, before boarding. (Not applicable in this case). I also recommend that these three be vetted before their next flight. Synopsis A319 Captain was informed Of unruly passengers shortly before takeoff and elected to return to the gate. Before the return could be accomplished the passengers calmed down and the flight departed.
Time / Day Date : 201705 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : A319 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1446724 Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1446726 Events Anomaly.FIight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Security Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Weight And Balance Detector. Person : Flight Crew Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : Pre-flight Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 The weight and balance for the leg from [departure] to [destination] was off by one passenger. The paperwork was for 145, but we had 146 on board. The gate agents [at departure] had let passenger on without scanning their boarding pass. The gate agents [at destination] had told me that passenger was traveling on a fraudulent ticket. We did 3 weight and balances. 1st the passenger was on, then we were told Service operations Center (SOC) was pulling the passenger off then customer service was putting the passenger back on. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis A319 flight crew reported that they had an unaccounted passenger on board.
Time / Day Date : 201704 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility State Reference : US Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier : ZZZ.ARTCC Make Model Name : Widebody Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass A : ZZZ Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Attendant : Flight Attendant In Charge Qualification.FIight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1446372 Human Factors : Distraction Events Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 During Inflight main cabin meal service Flight Attendant Y told me the passenger wanted the Purser. I approached them. Screens were down. Tried numerous times to reset. They asked for two seats together. I got them the last row aircraft left. Shortly, they were reported filming the crew! I asked them about it and they denied doing it. I asked them to stop as it's against company policy. We had no passenger misconduct sheets in our kits to tear off and hand them the bottom warning section. I also do not see them anywhere
online. They interfered with our duties most of the flight. In the recent events being posted online we need clearer policy on how to handle these situations as they will become more common, especially as we shrink the cabins increasing the likely of more confrontations! Synopsis A Flight Attendant reported a passenger misconduct incident involving the unauthorized filming of the flight crew performing their duties.
Time / Day Date : 201705 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.SingIe Value : O Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Cabin Activity : Boarding Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.FIight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1446366 Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Time Pressure Events Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate Result.General : None Reported / Taken Assessments Passenger Misconduct Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Company Policy Narrative: 1 I'm filing this report because I stepped off the aircraft (about 3 steps away) onto the jet bridge to alert the gate agent standing there about the passenger mentioned in this report. They were just behind me as I stepped off the aircraft. The agent saw for himself and stated to me after seeing the passengers words and gestures. ..'I would say that is threatening behavior!'
Also, though I did not seat them in premium economy; I did allow both passengers to remain in premium economy seating, because I felt threatened and didn't want the situation to escalate any further. The passengers around them were becoming uneasy, by the looks on their faces. Upon reflection, I realized that I could have done things differently (there is always room for improvement) but I have to blame fatigue after waiting 3 hours in a hot airport prior to boarding this flight (my 3rd for the day). The event happened as followed: Prior to boarding the gate agent stated that there will be those that want to move to premium economy without being charged. She wanted to make us aware beforehand. I notified the flight attendant in the aisle of the gate agents briefing. While boarding Passenger Mr. X and his wife Ms. X entered. Mr. X asked that he and his wife be seated together because she has severe anxieties and didn't want her to cause a scene. I advised him that if once in the air and after the seatbelt sign goes off he could ask to switch seats with another passenger and informed him that he could not sit in premium economy without an upcharge. He did not like my answer. He said 'look at her (now standing in first class cabin)...just look at her.' I didn't see anything out of the ordinary with her behavior, except she looked agitated. I asked him to speak to the flight attendant in the aisle for assistance in order to keep the boarding process moving. Before closing the door, I went to check on these 2 passengers and seen that they were sitting in an empty row in premium economy. I asked them if they would like to pay the upcharge for the seats they were occupying and he said with a stern voice 'NO!' He became very angry to the point his wife said 'Stop it' and popped him in the chest with her left hand- 2 different times.. He said very angrily and loud that 'I am NOT moving!' I told him that we will not be able to close the cabin door if they do not return to their original seats. At that point he went but not without stating how 'sorry' I was and that I should allow them to sit together because of her anxiety. I did not feel safe because of how angry he became when I told him to go back to his seat. I informed the captain who wanted to give him another chance and not take him off the flight. After the seatbelt sign was turned off I called to the back galley and asked the other FA to see if they could reseat them in economy or get someone to trade their economy seat. 30 minutes later I went through the cabin to find them seated once again in the premium economy seats. I stopped and asked them if they had decided to do an upcharge. Mr. X once again became inflamed at me stating 'NO, we did not! Your flight attendant moved us here.' I replied that they should not have done that. Because he stated again in a loud forceful and threatening tones that I didn't understand and that sometimes exceptions need to be made. Stating that his wife had a disability with her anxiety. I told him in calm tones that I understand as my own family members suffer from severe anxiety, but we still cannot assign them to seats that they did not pay for. He said 'Next time I fly, I will just sit where I want to and I will NOT move.' This angry, threatening tones with me was causing a scene with the surrounding passengers, for this reason, I left them there for the duration of the flight rather than move them again. Before leaving them, I asked his wife if she was 0k and he said, 'Yes, NOW she is...NO thanks to you!'
I have never felt so harassed in my life and bullied by a passenger. I thought we all agreed beforehand that we weren't going to move passengers to premium economy without charging, but this passenger was better left alone. When we landed I reported Mr. X and his wife to the gate agent. I stepped onto the jet bridge just before they came off so that I could point them out to him. As they passed me and the gate agent he yelled and waved his hand 'Thanks for ruining my flight!' The gate agent said he would flag him for future flights. Synopsis A Flight Attendant reported a passenger misconduct incident regarding the unauthorized use of premium seating. When the passengers were confronted, and told they would be charged for upgrading, they responded in a very threatening and abusive manner.
Time / Day Date : 201704 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B777 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 28000 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 210 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 7628 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1445971 Analyst Callback : Completed Events Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate Result.GeneraI : Flight Cancelled / Delayed Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1
This is not the first incident of this kind of late, but FAs had to address a disruptive passenger who changed seats and then tried to extort some kind of compensation for causing disruption. The passenger threatened to film them and put it on the Internet if the company would not pay him some kind of compensation. He baited them to forcibly remove him. The passenger feigned fear from the FA who was cordial and immensely patient throughout the incident. This is not the first such incident recently. The lack of sanction for any security violation that may have occurred due to recent events has now created a dangerous environment for our flight crews. Although one would hope this will blow over, the lingering effects are that some are taking advantage and compromising inflight security. The mob effect is a very real dynamic on an airplane, and the FAA needs to be aware of it and address it. Callback: 1 Reporter stated disruptive passenger was eventually coaxed back to his assigned seat, but said he wanted a meeting with the CEO after the flight. The reporter reaffirmed his concern that since no action was taken after recent passenger involved incidents, passengers are less mindful of crew member's instructions and even confrontational. Synopsis 3777 Captain reported a disruptive passenger who changed seats and then tried to extort some kind of compensation for causing disruption.
Time / Day Date : 201704 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.SingIe Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.VisibiIity : Light : Daylight Ceiling.Single Value : 5000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi 10 Make Model Name : Cessna Stationair/Turbo Stationair 6 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Landing Route In Use : Visual Approach Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 930 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 130 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 125 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1444510 Human Factors : Distraction Events Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Detector. Person : Flight Crew Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Became Reoriented
Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I was picking up two passengers. I arrived and got the passengers in the airplane. I see a lot of the same passengers every day, but I had never flown these people before. One of the passengers was riding in the front seat next to me which is allowed under the regulations for our type of operation and aircraft. I knew that they had flown with another company pilot earlier in the day, so I gave an abbreviated passenger briefing including seat belts, flotation devices, emergency exits, and what to do in case of an emergency. I did not include crew-member interference in the briefing, and that turned out to be a mistake. We departed. It was a nice day, and there were quite a few other airplanes out flying. The passenger in the front seat kept pointing them out to me. I didn't really mind him doing that then because we were in cruise and it's alright to have two sets of eyes looking out for traffic, especially during low workload times. Then he noticed the analog cylinder head gauge wasn't reading any temperature, and he began to tap on it. He kept tapping at it then looking at me, so I felt compelled to talk to him. He wasn't wearing a headset so I yelled over at him that we have a digital cylinder head temperature gauge, which I pointed out, and I told him that everything was fine. As we began to descend, I was getting busier. He pointed out another airplane that I was in radio contact with. The passenger pointing out airplanes was beginning to get distracting, so I nodded at him and motioned for him to put his arm down. He was monitoring my descent profile very closely and scanning the gauges. I thought that maybe he was just a very keen passenger, but had a sneaking suspicion that he might be a pilot. As we got on final approach, he jerked his arm up violently to point out what I was sure would be an airplane that was going to hit us. It was a bird which was about 100 feet above us. However, his action startled me, and I was beginning to get angry about his over-reactions to everything. At this point we were short final, and I was fighting a little with a gusty cross wind. Just after touching down, I felt an incessant poking on my throttle hand. I was attempting to ignore it and focus on directional control but eventually looked down briefly during the roll-out. Of course, the passenger had been poking me in the hand, and then once he saw I was looking, started pointing and tapping on the prop control which I had left in the cruise position and had forgotten to push forward. I quickly ushered his hand away from the engine controls. Now I was sure he was a pilot, but as I was taxiing off the runway I was seeing red I was so angry. I glanced over at him for a second and he looked very smug that he had gotten to correct a perceived mistake, which of course made me angrier. I simply could not believe that a possible pilot would have interfered with my duties during a critical phase of flight for something that was no longer relevant, especially after having startled me during the final approach anyway. Once we were parked, I asked him if he was a pilot, and I discovered that he was a private pilot. I did discuss with him my crew-member duties, the various distractions that he had caused me during my duties, and how to not interfere with a crew-member again. Lessons learned from this incident: 1) Pilots can make terrible passengers in the cockpit. Pilots should announce themselves prior to flight to the PIC if they are wanting to help the pilot scan for traffic. 2) Always give a full passenger brief to passengers that I have not already personally and fully briefed that day.
Synopsis C206 pilot reported that a pilot-qualified passenger's incessant input regarding traffic and other aspects of the flight caused undue interference and distraction.
Time / Day Date : 201704 Place Locale Reference.Airport : State Reference : US Aircraft Reference : X ZZZ.Airport ATC / Advisory.Center : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : A321 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass A : ZZZ Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Cabin Activity : Service Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.Flight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1444373 Analyst Callback : Attempted Events Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Illness Anomaly.FIight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : In-flight Result.General : Police / Security Involved Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Passenger moved from his original seat to seat XXC. Right after we leveled off Mrs. X (XXB) rang her FA call button and asked to be reseated, as her husband (pointing to XXC) was drunk and disturbing her. I informed Mrs. X that we had few open seats and would
look into it. I went to the front to locate an empty seat and to inform the lead FA and the Captain about the situation. When I returned to row XX, Mrs. X informed that she would like to stay where she was for the moment and if things didn't improve she would call. I offered both of them water, which was refused, and walked away. During the 1st beverage service, when I reached row XX I heard Mr. X asking the FA-B if she was serving alcohol on the flight, which she replied 'no'. FA-B went to the back to get the drinks for seats XXA and XXB, then Mr. X asked me if I had alcohol in my cart and I informed him that I had, however alcohol would not be served to him during the flight. He asked why and I informed that we were aware he was already under the influence of alcohol and that was the reason he would not be served any alcohol. He asked what other drinks we had and requested a cranapple juice. At that point the FA-B came with the drinks for the other the other two passengers and he started arguing with her why she said she didn't have alcohol. FA-B informed Mr. X, she said she wasn't serving him alcohol, but he continued the argument and she walked away without saying anything. At that moment he called her out loud "[expletive]" and I told Mr. X to please watch his language and respect the crew, and his reply was "[explicit] you". I walked away and called the lead FA to inform about the incident, which it was addressed to the Captain and local police requested to meet the flight upon arrival. Later on during the arrival services FA-B spilled water on the cart accidentally and a few drops went on Mr. X's arm, he started to be verbally [abusive] saying that she was about to be on "the news". 1:15 minutes before landing passenger [in the row in front of the intoxicated passenger] was having medical problems and while I was walking back with an oxygen bottle from the front of the aircraft, I noticed Mr. X standing by the aft lavatories talking to the FA-B and I saw when she closed the curtain and he went back to his seat. Apparently he was telling her what to do with the passenger with medical needs, but she asked him to return to his seat and closed the curtain. While I was assisting a volunteer nurse with the medical situation, Mr. X started to disrupt me stating how upset he was with the fact that the FA-B closed the curtain. I told him that I was busy with a medical situation and wasn't going to get involved with his issue at that time. When I was turning back to assist the nurse and passenger, he grabbed my arm which I asked him not to touch me at all and leave me alone at that time. Few minutes later Mr. X gets up in order for Mrs. X to get up and use the lavatory. When she comes out on the aisle she says thank you to me as I moved out of the way and I replied 'you're welcome'. At this moment Mr. X comes on my direction verbally abusive telling me not to talk to his wife or else I would regret, threatening to physically attack me and to sue the FA-B and myself, I asked Mr. X to stand back and get back on his seat, which he didn't and he was getting more and more agitated and closer. The Nurse had to step in the situation and calm him down, getting him seated. I called the Captain and the lead FA about the additional incident. After that he remained in his seat until escorted out of the aircraft by the local police. Synopsis A321 Flight Attendant reported an abusive and drunk passenger in flight. The passenger was escorted off the aircraft by security at the destination airport.
Time / Day Date : 201704 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Ground : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Regional Jet 200 ER/LR (CRJ200) Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Cabin Lighting : High Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Cabin Activity : Safety Related Duties Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant In Charge Qualification.Flight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1444349 Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Attendant Communication Breakdown. Party2 : Other Events Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Chart Or Publication Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 The flight was slightly delayed for maintenance at gate when ready for push. When door reclosed and announcements repeated was doing compliance check for cabin secure. Passenger was in emergency exit row. You would think exit row passenger of all passenger would be willing and able to comply with crew instructions. This man should never be allowed to sit in an exit seat again! At the time of walk through his seatbelt was undone was under his feet in aisle and newspaper was under his feet. I requested he stow bag and laptop and fasten seatbelt and asked if newspaper was trash could I take it for him. He said no he was reading it so I asked him to remove it from floor in exit row so no one would get hurt if we actually had to use exit, then I continued down aisle. On passing him on my way back he still had not complied with one thing I said. I seriously thought about removing him from exit seat, but did not want to escalate situation. So I made the same request AGAIN. He told me he was keeping his laptop on his lap because he could. I was wrong. I then informed him that I was not wrong and that it was in my manual as such and I would be happy to show him. Finally he said I will put it away but you are wrong and then told to LEAVE HIM ALONE. I talked to the CA of the situation. CA told me to show him in magazine where it is required to stow laptops. I didn't because as I said it would have escalated. This sort of behavior is unacceptable in exit row passenger. This man was of course one of the airline's [high] mile passenger. It is a shame because they hold a status that we cannot do our jobs. Something truly needs to be done. Our hands seemed to be tied and I have a plane full of passenger to protect. When these passenger disobey federal regulations there should be repercussions. Synopsis CRJ-200 Flight Attendant reported a passenger in an emergency exit row was defiant and non-compliant when asked to stow his laptop and remove newspapers from the exit row floor beneath his feet.
Time / Day Date : 201704 Place Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass A : ZZZ Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Cabin Activity : Service Cabin Activity : Safety Related Duties Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.Flight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1444341 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : In-flight When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 While completing an emergency exit row check (after briefing) some passengers alerted me to a male passenger who arbitrarily moved to the empty exit row seat. I asked the passenger what his original seat assignment was. He replied XXB. I requested he return to his original seat. Passenger complied. During the beverage service, at row XXABC, I
noticed the B seat was not occupied. I finished service, and checked the lavatories. The lavatories were unoccupied. I looked throughout the cabin for passenger XXB. He was once again sleeping in the empty economy section. I requested the passenger for the second time to return to his seat. Noncompliance. I then went to the forward galley for assistance. [The Purser] proceeded to speak with the passenger. After a long discussion, the passenger returned to XXB. A brief time later XXB aggressively approached me in the rear galley. Pointing his finger in my face, he demanded my name, my crew member's names, the Captain's name, "everyone's name working the flight," The passenger had what appeared to be alcohol on his breath. I once again, for the third time during the flight requested he return to his seat. His aggressiveness startled and alarmed me. I was offered official assistance, in wake of the aggressive actions of passengers against airline personnel. Synopsis Flight Attendant reported noncompliance with an apparently intoxicated passenger.
Time / Day Date : 201704 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Light Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Taxi Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Cabin Activity : Safety Related Duties Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.FIight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1443504 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : Taxi Result.General : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 The flight was originally scheduled to leave at XA:OO and was delayed to XA: 16 due to crew rest. After arriving to the aircraft and completing my preflight the Captain that was
riding in the jump seat for training informed me that there was a small maintenance delay. We ended up boarding shortly thereafter. It was the first flight of the day but the taxi was unusually long and passengers were asking me questions I had no answer to because no announcements were made. Finally I called back to ask if everything was alright. The pilot said that everything was fine and it was just gonna be a long taxi. We sat there for what felt like an hour. Passengers are becoming more upset seeing as they did not receive any updates or announcements. After that I only heard from the pilots before takeoff to tell me to be seated for departure. When we got into the air I had the usual questions from passengers asking when we were landing and if they were going to be making their connections. The pilot made an announcement that air traffic control would be holding us for about ten extra minutes in the air. Around XC:OO is when I received my before landing chime. At this point the passengers were very irate. Particularly passengers in seat YYA, YYB, and XXB. When we landed about 10 minutes later the taxi was taking a while and every time the plane would jerk or brake the passengers would try to take off their seat belts or get up. So I made an announcement again letting them know they needed to remain seated until the seat-belt sign was extinguished. At that point YYB gets upset and starts conversing with XXB telling XXB how it's amateur hour back there and that's why they are missing their trip. At this point is when XXB unbuckles their seat-belt and leans over the seat pointing and cursing at me red in the face saying "This is the worst flight ever. It's even worse coming back to [the departure airport]. [This airline] sucks. You guys are terrible. Terrible." I told XXB they needed to sit down and put their seat-belt back on. Passenger YYB and XXB continued to ignore me and XXB continued to be belligerent. I called back to the flight deck and told the pilot that if this passenger continues to be this way I will be needing security to meet us at the aircraft. After that call was made to the flight deck, the Pilot made an announcement saying we were about 5 minutes away from the gate. We arrived at the hardstand parking shortly thereafter. I received the chime to open the main cabin door and waited for the prop be tied as [the ground crew] connected the step and set up the cones for them to deplane. When the prop was tied and I got the 0k to deplane the flight deck door opened. The pilot that was in the jump seat came out of the flight deck and stood in the corridor by the lavatory right next to me while we deplaned. Shortly after a few passengers deplane the passenger in XXB walks up to me near the flight deck and starts yelling and put their hands not even 3 inches away from my face speaking loudly and being abrasive pointing and yelling at both the Pilot and I. As X XB starts getting closer to me I feel unsafe so I tell them they need to move away from me and I raise my hands to cover my face because XXB continues to raise their hands in my face and keeps raising their voice being very disruptive and threatening. As soon as I did so the Pilot tells me to turn my face away, ignore them, and just let them deplane. Nothing was done to protect me from this violent, disruptive, and threatening passenger that was seconds away from assaulting me. Synopsis Air Carrier Flight Attendant reported of a disruptive passenger that got in her face for reasons she could not control.
Time / Day Date : 201704 Place Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8767-300 and 300 ER Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Cruise Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Cabin Activity : Service Cabin Activity : Deplaning Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.Flight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1443500 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : In-flight Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Passenger Ms. X was disruptive during flight as she was unhappy with her seat assignment and came into the FC cabin demanding a better seat. I led her to door IL jumpseat to speak with her as fellow crew members continued the service. She was loud and telling me "I'm a senior citizen and I should have been upgraded, I can no longer sit in that middle seat! Does [the company] have senior citizen seating? ; I responded with "No ma'am but we do have [premium economy seats]." She gets louder and say "[the company] discriminates against senior citizens? Even the XX Transit has senior citizen seating!" I
kindly ask her to keep her voice down, that I am right here listening and we do not need to disturb the FC customers. Then she really starts yelling and says "No I won't keep my voice down! What will you do - punch me in the teeth and drag me out!? You want to be on the news?!" Fellow crew member leads her to the main cabin to get away from FC and the flight deck and I called the flight deck to let them know of the situation. We agreed that if this escalated, authorities might need to meet the flight. At this point she sat in 16A, in our designated crew rest area. I sit next to her to explain that unfortunately with our full flight I could not offer a different seat and that this was designated for crew use and not passengers. I ask her to kindly take her assigned seat as we would need to take up her seating issue with ground staff upon landing. She refused. She actually crossed her arms and closed her eyes and refused. She said "I'm not going, you can just drag me out." She would not tell me her name or seat assignment, she said she lost her boarding card. I told her if she did not comply with crew direction I would need to get the captain involved and that would likely mean that authorities would need to meet the flight. She said "I don't care, I'm not moving." I went forward to advise crew and flight deck. When I returned to the main cabin with a fellow flight attendant to find her original seat so I could look on my Link at her name, I saw that she had then taken her original seat. I did not further engage her as now she was where she needed to be. She was fine the remainder of the flight. Upon deplaning, as I stood at door IL, she deliberately slammed her carry-on luggage into/against my legs. I was completely dumbfounded, as were the captain and 2 other flight attendants that witnessed this. The captain stepped on to the jet bridge to stop her but she was already gone. This woman was disruptive and belligerent and advanced herself to a level 2 security threat, though fortunately while on the ground. It is out of principle that I am so upset and feel this needs to be addressed. The blatant disrespect for crew and disregard for civility is a major problem. Additionally, she was traveling with her daughter whom was also a bit of a problem. During the service she was in the FC cabin waiting for a restroom. When I asked her to please utilize the restrooms in the main cabin, as now those carts were out of the aisle and we were in the middle of the service, she refused. She complained later to crew about me that "That witch told me I cannot use the bathroom up front. " These customers are on return flight next week. At the very least, crew and ground staff should be notified and they need to know their behavior is a violation of FARs and totally unacceptable. Synopsis 3767-300 Flight Attendant reported a disruptive passenger on a trans Atlantic flight who demanded an upgraded seat due to her senior citizen status and refused to return to her assigned seat.
Time / Day Date : 201704 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 1900 Environment Flight Conditions : IMC Weather Elements / Visibility : Fog Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Caravan Undifferentiated Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : GPS Flight Phase : Final Approach Airspace.CIass E : ZZZ Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.FIight Crew : Captain Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial ASRS Report Number.Accession Number . • 1443377 Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Other / Unknown Events Anomaly.FIight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Overshoot Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Crew Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Executed Go Around / Missed Approach Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 The weather was IFR and I was on an IFR flight plan. I received instructions to fly direct [to a fix] for the RNAV RWY 2 into [the airport]. At that point, I could see passenger, Mr. X (who was sitting directly behind me) start leaning over to his right and looking at the GPS. He started to talk and say where he thought [the airport] was and start pointing towards it. I flew the RNAV RWY 2 approach to minimums and could not see the runway, I executed the published missed approach. It appears there was a fog bank sitting right over the approach end of runway 2. I thought the fog would dissipate, therefore, I decided to set up for RNAV RWY 2 approach again. As I was executing the missed approach, Mr. X starts yelling again, and telling me where he thought [the airport] was and that he could see the runway. I flew back, executed published hold, and got clearance for RNAV RWY 2 approach again. Meanwhile, Mr. X is talking the whole time. I fly the whole RWY 2 approach to minimums again, and same thing, I could not see the runway at minimums. However, as soon as I flew over the approach end of runway 20, I could see the runway. executed the published missed approach procedure again. As I am climbing to altitude, Mr. X starts yelling more saying "hey pilot, [the airport] is over there" and points to it. He also keeps saying "young pilot is too scared to fly into fog and doesn't want to land." He then starts tapping me on my shoulder violently and starts yelling. At this point, I had to turn around and tell him to cut it out. As I am climbing up to altitude, I decided I needed this passenger off of the airplane. I keep climbing up to published missed approach altitude (1900 ft). I was severely distracted by Mr. X, who was interfering with my duties at a critical phase of flight. I then instructed the controller that I wanted to get clearance for the RNAV RWY 20 as it appeared on my last missed approach that the approach into runway 20 would work better. I received clearance to climb to 3000 ft. The controller also advised me to contact a number when I got on the ground. I was thinking to myself, I had no idea what I did wrong, if anything. I flew direct [to the assigned fix] and was instructed to climb an additional 100 ft, to 3100 ft until crossing [the fix] and received approach clearance. I believed requesting the RNAV 20 and flying a third approach was the best course of action, first off, because I needed this passenger off of the airplane and did not feel comfortable flying 60 minutes back to [our departure airport] with him on board, and secondly, the fog seemed to just be at the approach end of RWY 2. I could see the runway as I flew over it on the missed approach off RWY 2. I got on the ground and had a "kind" word with Mr. X. I called ATC and they told me they needed to follow up on a possible pilot deviation. They had told me that I climbed to 2700 ft, instead of the published 1900 ft on the missed approach off of runway 2. I had no idea that was what happened. Like I said, I was severely distracted by said passenger. Synopsis C208 Captain reported being severely distracted by a passenger during two consecutive approaches that resulted in go arounds. The third attempt to the opposite runway was successful.
Time / Day Date : 201704 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : A321 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Landing Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Cabin Activity : Safety Related Duties Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.Flight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1443217 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Attendant Events Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Became Reoriented Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1
It was cloudy, could not see the ground but we were close. The gear dropped and the Captain said "Prepare for landing." Yikes! We hadn't gotten the approach announcement. We rushed around, picking up trash and checking seat belts. Still couldn't see the ground. I saw the ground, we were coming in fast, perhaps 100 feet? Rushed to my jumpseat and made it. Just before landing the lavatory door behind me opens and a passenger is there. I told him to stay in the lavatory for landing, because he couldn't get back to his seat before landing, hold onto the assist handle and brace himself. This was a passenger sitting in 6C, according to my tablet. The landing was good, the passenger was 0K. I called the Captain to ask him to stop for a minute so he could get back to his assigned seat, but the Captain didn't answer. We did stop for a while so I told him to return to his seat. "The Flight Attendant told me I could use the bathroom," he declared. Wrong. I checked and none of us said he could - we were landing! The Captain called me back and I told him what had happened and what I had done. After deplaning, the Captain was very apologetic, telling me that Air Traffic Control had changed the runway on them THREE times. I passed on his apology to the crew. Oh, and I think I forgot to dump the coffee before we landed too. If Air Traffic Control hadn't changed the runway three times, the Captain would have been able to notify us in a timely manner. But...stuff happens. Synopsis A321 Flight Attendant reported not receiving the approach announcement from the Captain and only realizing how close to landing when hearing the gear extended. The cabin was not completely secured and a passenger was in the forward lavatory during the landing.
Time / Day Date : 201704 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZZ.Airport State Reference : FO Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Daylight Ceiling : CLR Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B737 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Taxi Cabin Lighting : High Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Cabin Activity : Boarding Cabin Activity : Service Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.Flight Attendant : Current Experience. Flight Attendant.AirIine Total : 33 Experience.Flight Attendant.Number Of Acft Qualified On : 6 Experience. Flight Attendant. Type : 100 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1442058 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Other Events Anomaly.FIight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : Taxi
When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Flight from [international airport]. Several passengers non-compliant, sitting in areas of the aircraft where they had not paid for that seat, such as economy passengers taking first class seats, when they had paid for and were assigned economy seats. We had passenger in 25B take seat 9C, which is $179 more, but she would not take her assigned seat until our purser, Mr. X, instructed her to do so. Upon landing and still on an active taxiway, this passenger moved again from seat 25B to 9C, as 50 people stood up to retrieve their bags from the overhead bins and place them in the aisles. Our aircraft had stopped on the taxiway to allow other aircraft right of way. We made several announcements and yet no one would heed the announcement to replace their bags in the overhead bins, and take a seat and buckle up. Passenger in 9E pretended to be asleep and we could not wake her to take her economy seat, I am not sure where that was, but our purser had tried several times to have her move. She woke up after we walked away and then went back to sleep whenever we approached her. Mr. X declared a Level 1 threat as it was almost chaotic, no one would listen to us. The general feeling was that passengers felt they could do whatever they wanted. The cockpit called for security, but when we arrived at the gate, we were greeted by one customer service agent, and no one else. Mr. X was approached by passengers in the Customs Hall as they wanted his name and they had their cell phones out, including the passenger who was seated in 25B and took 9C without paying the up-charge. Passenger in 14D, kept changing seats as well, although he stayed within his 'area', he drank 2 vodkas and had asked for more, but decided not to have any more vodka. This took our time throughout the flight, rarely did we have time to take care of those customers who simply wanted service and to sleep. We had such disruptive passengers in 25B/9C, 9E, and row 14, most notably 14D. I was told upon boarding, passengers decided to take first class seats and they sat down in them, even though they had economy seats. All were American, all spoke perfect English. There were no language problems. Synopsis 3737 Flight Attendant reported unruly passengers on an international flight who refused to take their assigned seats.
Time / Day Date : 201704 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Large Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person : Gate / Ramp / Line Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1441601 Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Time Pressure Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown. Party2 : Other Analyst Callback : Attempted Events Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Security Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly Deviation - Procedural : FAR Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Detector. Person : Flight Crew Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate Result.GeneraI : Police / Security Involved
Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Law enforcement was requested due to unruly passengers (4) seated in first class. The lead flight attendant requested a level 1 and advised me that alcohol was involved. After block in and the jetway was up to the aircraft the seat belt sign was turned off and the passengers started to get out of their seats. As the aircraft was being deplaned the offending passengers were identified to law enforcement offices at the L-I door. I went out on the jetway to speak with the officers. The officer advised me that he needed to debrief the F/A now because he could not detain these people without a reason. I advised the officer if he could wait until the deplaning was completed because she was required to stay on the aircraft until all passengers were off. The officer continued insisting that he debrief her now or he was going to release the offending passengers. I then asked the officer if he would talk to her on the aircraft and he agreed. However, the lead F/A refused to talk to him until deplaning was completed. The officer continued to insist that he talk to her. In light of recent events I did not want this to escalate any further. So I went back on the aircraft and noticed that there were only 20 or so passengers left on board. I asked the FA if she would go onto the jetway and talk to the officer. She advised me that I needed to take responsibility for this, and I told her I would. I am aware Of the minimum crew requirements, but I felt I needed to obey a law enforcement request. I had another FA in place to manage the R-1 door and I remained at the front of aircraft to assist if needed. I felt between a rock and a hard place, so I made this decision because I felt I could maintain the required level of safety for my passengers. Synopsis Air carrier Captain reported law enforcement met the aircraft on arrival due to unruly passengers.
Time / Day Date : 201704 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Environment Light : Dusk Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Large Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass A : ZZZ Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Cabin Activity : Service Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant In Charge Qualification.FIight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1438895 Human Factors : Distraction Events Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : Police / Security Involved Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Primary Problem : Company Policy Narrative: 1
I was the lead FA. Passenger in [seat] X XB asked me if he could have wine I told him it was available for purchase in economy during the service. He asked me again for wine while I was walking back to the back to help them with the cart. I told him the same thing. He also asked the FAs in the back during boarding for wine. They both explained he could purchase wine in the air and both gave him water. During the service, he asked one of them for wine. She saw he had cash and told him we accepted debit and credit only. Passenger became aggressive. Passenger then stood up and starting asking people to pay for him. I told him he needed to sit down. Passenger became argumentative. He demanded wine, I tell him no and he needs to lower his voice. Passenger then says he wants to talk to the (expletive) captain and he wants to know who the director of the airline is. I tell him I am the lead flight attendant on this flight. He is cussing and raising his voice and tells me he will pay me one million dollars for wine. No one serves him any alcohol. I go to the front and call the captain and inform him of what is happening. Captain declares threat level I and asks to monitor situation. Passenger in seat XXC is a woman. She comes to the front galley and asks if she can stay up here for a minute as she is uncomfortable. I tell her yes. I then see passenger in XXA has moved seats and is crying. I approach her and ask her if she is okay. She says yes but that she was scared and felt trapped because he wouldn't let her out of her seat. I continually check on her. I continue service. Passenger [16 rows behind row XX] tells me he saw him standing up and arguing and said he would help handle the situation if needed. Passenger [5 rows behind row XX] IS a male. He also offered his help. He and another gentlemen moved to the seats next to the problem passenger as we were full and the two women did not feel comfortable sitting next to him. He boarded the plane with a boxing helmet on. He had this helmet as well as boxing gloves with him at his seat. He was taking pictures of us and filming the entire interaction during the flight. I kept the captain informed. Law enforcement met the airplane. We deplaned normally. Supervisor met the airplane as well. I am concerned that it is a rule that passengers cannot video tape or take photos of the flight attendants however it seems hard to enforce. With social media being the way it is today, it makes me uncomfortable that my face may be on his phone videos. As flight attendants are we allowed to tell them to delete the material? Or do we just advise them that it is against the rules to film us? I would like guidance on this issue so that if it were to happen again in the future, I would understand the best approach. I felt very uncomfortable during the interactions with the passenger and I feel strongly that the affected passengers are contacted by [company] to ensure we do not lose valuable customers. Synopsis Flight Attendant reported a disruptive passenger demanded wine and his aggressive behavior caused some passengers to be reseated. Law enforcement met the aircraft.
Time / Day Date : 201704 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.SingIe Value : O Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8787-800 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person : Company Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.Flight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1438881 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Ground Personnel Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Attendant Events Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Company Policy Narrative: 1 I did not witness passenger boarding as I was working in the aft of the cabin. The passenger was boarded with an aisle chair and apparently needed 3 assistants. He was traveling with his wife (?) Mrs. X.
After takeoff I noticed Ms. X was feeding him. Later I was told by other crew members that she had changed his diaper on the passenger seat. He was unable to stand or even move himself to a sitting position from laying on the seat. She was unable to move him or help him in the bathroom. This seems an unsafe condition for him to be unable to use a bathroom for a 15 hour flight. It seems unsanitary to change a diaper in the passenger seat. It seems unsanitary and unfair to have other passengers have to share the area with the smells of human urine and feces for such a long flight. In hind sight I wish we had contacted [customer service] during boarding to determine if it was acceptable for him to travel. He needed one or two or more strong people traveling with him to be able to get him in the aisle chair and help him in the bathroom. That might not have worked either. The flight had been delayed and we were hurrying to leave and the passenger's level of disability was unclear to flight attendants. It is difficult to imagine anyone would try to travel in this condition with such insufficient support. Our manual seems unclear to me regarding passenger acceptance in situations like this. This is a difficult problem to resolve in the middle of boarding. Synopsis Boeing 787 Flight Attendant reported an adult passenger required a diaper change in his seat. The Flight Attendant questioned whether the passenger should have been boarded under this condition, citing sanitary reasons.
Time / Day Date : 201702 Place Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8737 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Taxi Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Cabin Activity : Boarding Cabin Activity : Deplaning Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Function.Flight Attendant : Flight Attendant In Charge Qualification.Flight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1432371 Human Factors : Other / Unknown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate When Detected : Taxi Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 During boarding a Flight Attendant (FA), arrived at the boarding door in uniform with a dog on a leash. I was FA 1 and was standing at the boarding door. I stated "Oh. I was told that there weren't any service animals on this flight. " She stated that the dog was not a service animal but she would put him in the carrier once she got to the seat. She went to her seat and the boarding process continued. After we had played the safety video I did my walk through for my safety check. I noticed that the flight attendant had her dog
swaddled in a blanket in her arms. I told her that the dog needed to be in the carrier under the seat. She said that she would before we took off. I told her that now would be the time and waited for her to do it. She told me that I did not need to wait and I said "as a flight attendant, you know that I do. I am performing my safety checks and need to make sure that everyone is in compliance." She then got upset and said "just wait until I come up there later and have a word with you." I felt as though she was trying to intimidate me and so I asked her if she was threatening me. She laughed and asked me "do you really want to do this?" I again took this as intimidation and asked her if she wanted to go back to the gate. She laughed and then put the dog in the carrier. I finished my checks and then went to the front and looked up her name on the tablet. I noticed that the passenger sitting in her seat had a paid ticket so to confirm who she was I went back to her and asked for her ID. She did not show me her ID but instead wrote her name and employee number on a sick bag and gave it to me while stating "go ahead and call the office. They all know who I am." I felt this was another way to intimidate me. The dog was in the carrier so I went to my seat in the hopes that she would calm down. During the flight I spoke with my captain about the situation and we both agreed that we would wait to see if she gave us any more problems before we took further action. At the end of the flight while I was doing my safety checks before landing I noticed that the dog was again out of the carrier but she was putting him back in it. Once we got to the gate the captain came out of the flight deck as soon as possible to witness if there were any further problems with the flight attendant. The flight attendant then deplaned with the dog out of the carrier on a leash. The captain said that he was going to go talk to her about her actions and followed her off the plane. I did not hear anything else so I figured that the situation was being taken care of. Last week I was asked to come into the office to speak with my Manager. She stated that she received a complaint letter from [the Flight Attendant in question] stating that I was rude and did not handle the situation properly. I was told by my Manager that I should have never waited to make sure that she put the dog in the carrier and that my job is not to "enforce" FAA regulations but only to "inform". She stated that I should have told her to put the dog away only a couple of times and then let her be. She stated that the flight attendant was trying to calm her dog down because he had anxiety about flying. When I told her that [the Flight Attendant in question] tried to intimidate me she responded by defending [the Flight Attendant in question] by saying that the dog was a rescue dog and had special needs and that I should have spoken to [the Flight Attendant in question] about the dog when she got on the plane. I need some guidance because now I'm confused about my place in my job. I cannot find anywhere in the manual that states that a dog who is not a service animal can remain out of the carrier for any reason. It is also my understanding that passengers must be in compliance at all times and should not argue or intimate a flight attendant under any circumstance. What should I have done in this situation? As a flight attendant are we just supposed to inform the passengers about the rules and then let them be? Please help me understand this situation better. Synopsis 3737 Flight Attendant reported having to instruct an off duty Flight Attendant in uniform, to keep her small dog in its carrier prior to and after the flight.
Time / Day Date : 201703 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.SingIe Value : O Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Ramp : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : A319 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Taxi Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Qualification Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (AT P) Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 2052 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 267 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1430732 Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 12543 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 5033 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1430762 Events Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Security Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Detector. Person : Flight Crew Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate
Result.GeneraI : Police / Security Involved Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Staffing Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 After landing about 10 minutes early we had to wait for a gate on the ramp just short of gate. The parking brake was set with one engine running. After about 15 minutes of waiting for our gate to open up we (the pilots and 1 flight deck jump seater) hear a loud repeated banging on the flight deck door. The Captain quickly called the forward flight attendant and the jump seater got out of his seat and looked through the peep hole on the door. The flight attended explained that an irate passenger from the back of the aircraft had come forward and was standing at the door pounding on it because he was going to miss his connection. She said she told the passenger that he cannot do that. The jump seater confirmed that a man was standing at the door. The Captain quickly made a PA to demand all passengers immediately take their seats and that it was not 0k to bang on the flight deck door. The Captain had me call operations and explain we had an irate passenger banging on the door and need a gate as soon as possible and requested law enforcement and a customer service manager meet the airplane. We were changed to [a different] gate, taxied around the terminal and parked. Law enforcement met the plane and dealt with the passenger on deplaning. Narrative: 2 Law enforcement questioned him and he apologized, said he was bipolar with explosive personality and was off his meds. Law enforcement contacted the FBI, they were 0k with a strong verbal warning and let him go. The Flight Attendants were 0k with that as was I, along with Dispatch and corporate security through the Dispatcher. Customer service supervisors and inflight supervisors were also present. Law Enforcement escorted him out of the secure area of the airport. Synopsis A319 flight crew reported an irate passenger began banging on the flight deck door while the aircraft was waiting for a gate.
Time / Day Date : 201703 Place Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Taxi Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Cabin Activity : Safety Related Duties Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1430255 Events Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Anomaly Deviation - Procedural : Security Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : Taxi Result.GeneraI : Police / Security Involved Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 The [passenger] had a razor blade out during the taxi out. The lead was informed and she contacted the captain. He asked that we take the razor blade from him and hold it up front till we land. TSA met the aircraft, we handed over the razor and introduced the passenger to them. [Passenger] was very cooperative the whole time. Synopsis A flight attendant reported that a passenger had a razor blade out.
Time / Day Date : 201703 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.SingIe Value : O Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Mission : Passenger Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Cabin Activity : Service Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.Flight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accesslon Number : 1429289 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Workload Events Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Anomaly Deviation - Procedural : FAR Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : In-flight When Detected : Pre-flight Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Passenger Misconduct Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I was flying the purser position during this incident. After completing the safety demo and taxiing to the runway, it was brought to my attention by my fellow FA that there were three women in the back of the aircraft who were loudly conversing about consuming edibles (marijuana). They then proceeded to pass around a bag of such edibles and offer
them to the passengers around them, meanwhile loudly conversing about how "messed up" they're going to get. According to both my other flight attendants, they were eagerly asking for alcohol on the ground and were angry when we had to decline. We could all smell alcohol on them already, and were uncomfortable with their eagerness to get a drink immediately, in addition to whatever drugs they were passing around. All 3 of us received an attitude when asking them to comply to simple safety rules such as fastening seat belts, being seated during taxi, and being in airplane mode (one was FaceTiming during taxi). At this point I informed the Captain, and he made the decision to go back to the gate where cops removed the women from the flight. FA had to specifically point out the passengers to the police, and the gate agent in ZZZ informed me that the passengers removed were angry with us and asked for our names. We then had to refuel and eventually closed back up and departed. Once in flight, I had the passenger in 2E approach me in the galley informing me he was a Federal Air Marshal, (of which I was not informed) and that he even noticed visible signs of intoxication as one woman even engaged him by the gate prior to the flight. Other passengers commented on signs of intoxication and the scent of marijuana as well. When we landed we were notified that our schedules had been reassigned to work a flight. After a long sit, we boarded our second flight with no pilots as they were arriving late. As I was distributing pre-departure beverages, I saw one of the previous females we had removed from our original flight board the plane. Perplexed as to how they managed to be cleared in ZZZ, I was instantly alarmed and informed my other flight attendants to get confirmation. Eventually our pilots arrived and we informed the Captain of our situation. All three of us felt extremely uncomfortable transporting these women who we had removed from a previous flight hours earlier. The women did not engage us or were necessarily acting belligerent, however they still smelled like alcohol. The gate agent in ZZZ also commented that he smelled alcohol on them however did not personally find them unfit to fly. The Captain told us that he would bring the women aside and talk to them need be. We felt uncomfortable and unsafe to fly with these passengers who clearly exhibited signs of intoxication to us in ZZZ, and who still currently smelled of alcohol. We were also uncomfortable with the fact that we were the crew that had already removed them from a previous flight, and were unsure of their demeanor towards us. The Captain responded by telling us these women were cleared by police at our departure airport to fly, so if we were uncomfortable working the flight he supported us if we did not want to continue. He then contacted a CSR supervisor in our next destination to come talk to us as well as Inflight supervisor. We stated our severe discomfort in traveling with these passengers who were visibly and audibly under the influence hours prior. We were told that we could of course decline the flight, but that there was no promise that there would not be disciplinary action if we chose that route. Feeling pressured to make an immediate decision with the potential of disciplinary action, we reluctantly agreed to work the flight despite the feeling that our safety could be compromised by transporting these intoxicated passengers we had previously made a judgment call on hours prior. I felt that an unnecessary safety risk was created by having the same crew transport the same women we deemed unfit to fly within the same day. Fortunately there was no confrontation during the quick flight and we did not have to engage in any confrontation with the women. However, it is unsettling that the discretion of an entire Flight Crew was so quickly dismissed, allowing these passengers to be instantly rebooked and present on a flight within hours, with the same crew. Synopsis A Flight Attendant reported several boisterous, non conforming passengers boarded their flight and were determined to be under the influence of marijuana but were removed after a gate return. After a layover between flights, the same passengers were boarded on a connecting flight at a different airport.
Time / Day Date : 201702 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : TRK.Airport State Reference : CA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 7200 Environment Flight Conditions : Mixed Weather Elements / Visibility Weather Elements / Visibility Weather Elements / Visibility Weather Elements / Visibility Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZOA ATC / Advisory.CTAF : TRK Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi : Cloudy : Icing : Snow : Turbulence Make Model Name : Small Aircraft, Low Wing, 2 Eng, Retractable Gear Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : GPS Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.Class E : ZOA Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 11270 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 166 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 1117 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1428060 Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Confusion
Human Factors Human Factors Events : Distraction : Situational Awareness Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : VFR In IMC Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Flight Crew Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.FIight Crew : Diverted Result.Flight Crew : Executed Go Around / Missed Approach Result.Flight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Weather Narrative: 1 Assigned part 135 flight to TRK, 2 passengers, departing early afternoon. TRK AWOS reporting 10 miles and clear. Runway 29/11 open, Runway 20/02 closed (for snow removal). Anticipating build-ups over Sierras filed IFR to TRK at 11,000. Boarded passengers with one requesting copilot seat and headset. Departed VFR (IFR to be picked up later if needed). Picked up IFR clearance direct SWR, and direct AWEGA. Advised ATC that intention was to overfly TRK, and cancel IFR if visual. Cleared direct SWR, direct TRK, direct AWEGA, and direct TRK at 13,000. No visual on TRK however TRK AWOS still reporting 10 miles and clear. Proceeded direct AWEGA in VFR conditions well above cloud deck. Noted large clear area over valley at approximately 10 miles from AWEGA. TRK AWOS still reporting 10 miles and clear. Requested cancellation of IFR with descent and turn towards TRK. Cancellation of IFR acknowledged by ATC, cleared to switch to Unicom frequency. ATC advised that another aircraft was on the Runway 20 RNAV approach to TRK and was several miles toward TRK from my position. T RK AWOS still reporting 10 miles and clear. At approximately 7200 MSL and 3 to 4 miles from TRK I am suddenly engulfed in a white-out condition and at the same instant I hear the other aircraft announced it is going missed. Normally would have made an immediate 180 degree turn to right (towards lower terrain) but wanted to avoid any conflict with the aircraft on the missed approach. Elected to proceed toward TRK with intention of making climbing turns over the field (by GPS reference). Requested status of Runway 20 from Unicom, advised still closed. Proceeded toward T RK and started climbing turns. Passenger in co-pilot seat panicked and created extreme distraction. Entered accelerated stall condition due to inadvertent overbank in turn. Pitched down to recover, re- established climb, and diverted. Traffic warning system did not alarm throughout entire event and had no indication of traffic on visual display (no conflict with the other aircraft). Re-established contact with ATC. Completed uneventful approach and landing at divert airport.
Assure the contribution of IFR flight ops until field is definitely in sight and landing is assured. Reject the consideration of VFR approach/landing when another aircraft is on the approach. Do not allow the presence of distracting factors. Synopsis Air taxi pilot reported experiencing whiteout conditions while VFR on approach to TRK. A passenger in the right seat panicked, distracting the pilot which lead to a stall and recovery during the IMC missed approach.
