ASRS Database Report Set Passenger Electronic Devices Report Set Description.................... .....A sampling of reports referencing passenger electronic devices incidents. Update Number.. .....29.0 Date of Update — .......Janua1Y 31, 2018 Number of Records in Report Set................. .....50 Number of New Records in Report Set ...............3 Type of Records in Report Set. ....... ...................For each update, new records received at ASRS will displace a like number of the oldest records in the Report Set, with the objective of providing the fifty most recent relevant ASRS Database records. Records within this Report Set have been screened to assure their relevance to the topic.
National Aeronautics and Space Administration Ames Research Center Moffett Field, CA 94035-1000 TH: 262-7 MEMORANDUM FOR: Recipients of Aviation Safety Reporting System Data SUBJECT: Data Derived from ASRS Reports The attached material is furnished pursuant to a request for data from the NASA Aviation Safety Reporting System (ASRS). Recipients of this material are reminded when evaluating these data of the following points. ASRS reports are submitted voluntarily. The existence in the ASRS database of reports concerning a specific topic cannot, therefore, be used to infer the prevalence of that problem within the National Airspace System. Information contained in reports submitted to ASRS may be amplified by further contact with the individual who submitted them, but the information provided by the reporter is not investigated further. Such information represents the perspective of the specific individual who is describing their experience and perception of a safety related event. After preliminary processing, all ASRS reports are de-identified and the identity of the individual who submitted the report is permanently eliminated. All ASRS report processing systems are designed to protect identifying information submitted by reporters; including names, company affiliations, and specific times of incident occurrence. After a report has been de-identified, any verification of information submitted to ASRS would be limited. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration and its ASRS current contractor, Booz Allen Hamilton, specifically disclaim any responsibility for any interpretation which may be made by others of any material or data furnished by NASA in response to queries of the ASRS database and related materials. Linda J. Connell, Director NASA Aviation Safety Reporting System
CAVEAT REGARDING USE OF ASRS DATA Certain caveats apply to the use of ASRS data. All ASRS reports are voluntarily submitted, and thus cannot be considered a measured random sample of the full population of like events. For example, we receive several thousand altitude deviation reports each year. This number may comprise over half of all the altitude deviations that occur, or it may be just a small fraction of total occurrences. Moreover, not all pilots, controllers, mechanics, flight attendants, dispatchers or other participants in the aviation system are equally aware of the ASRS or may be equally willing to report. Thus, the data can reflect reporting biases. These biases, which are not fully known or measurable, may influence ASRS information. A safety problem such as near midair collisions (NMACs) may appear to be more highly concentrated in area "A" than area "B" simply because the airmen who operate in area "A" are more aware of the ASRS program and more inclined to report should an NMAC occur. Any type of subjective, voluntary reporting will have these limitations related to quantitative statistical analysis. One thing that can be Imown from ASRS data is that the number of reports received concerning specific event types represents the lower measure of the true number of such events that are occurring. For example, if ASRS receives 881 reports of track deviations in 2010 (this number is purely hypothetical), then it can be known with some certainty that at least 881 such events have occurred in 2010. With these statistical limitations m mind, we believe that the real power of ASRS data is the qualitative information contained in report narratives. The pilots, controllers, and others who report tell us about aviation safety incidents and situations in detail — explaining what happened, and more importantly, why it happened. Using report narratives effectively requires an extra measure of study, but the knowledge derived is well worth the added effort.
Report Synopses
ACN:1469656 (lof50) Synopsis 3757 Captain reported concern regarding company policy regarding cell phones which are lost/left on aircraft and not recovered before the aircraft is dispatched for subsequent flights. ACN: 1467436 (20f50) Synopsis A319 First Officer and a Flight Attendant reported a cabin fire from a passenger battery thermal runaway during taxi-in. ACN: 1457917 (30f50) Synopsis 3737 Captain reported they had an uncooperative passenger who was apparently attempting to provoke a reaction and receive compensation. ACN:1441841 (40f50) Synopsis 3737 Captain reported the flight crew donned oxygen masks and asked for direct destination after a Flight Attendant reported smoke in the cabin related to thermal runaway of an e-cigarette battery. ACN: 1438580 (50f50) Synopsis EMB-175 First Officer reported radio static interference which was suspected to be from Flight Attendant or passenger electronic device use. ACN:1433099 (60f50) Synopsis EMB-175 flight crew reported a passenger's portable battery overheated so the Flight Attendant placed the battery in a water container as per company procedure. ACN:1408483 (70f50) Synopsis 8737 flight crew reported diverting after a passenger's charger overheated resulting in smoke and an odor in the cabin. The flight crew expressed concern over the number and tone of communications from Operations. ACN:1398160 (80f50)
Synopsis An air carrier Captain reported that a Flight Attendant identified a banned electronic device on board the aircraft after engine start. When the unit could not be located, the aircraft returned to the gate. ACN•. 1398031 (90f50) Synopsis 3737 flight crew reported confusion in company policy related to a passenger who brought a Samsung Galaxy Note 7 phone on board. ACN•. 1394414 (100f50) Synopsis EMB-145 Captain reported being dispatched with the single FMS deferred inoperative and using VORs for navigation. The navigation became less reliable and the crew descended early on the arrival. PCT intervened and the crew received vectors and altitudes to the airport. ACN: 1372671 (11 Synopsis Air carrier Flight Attendant reported being concerned about passenger use of electronic devices during safety checks and would like to see the policy changed to not allow their use at those times. ACN: 1372295 (120f50) Synopsis 3737-800 flight crew reported being informed by the lead Flight Attendant of an overheated battery charger. Fifteen minutes later he was informed that some of the flight attendants were experiencing headaches and nausea and the Captain elected to divert to a suitable airport. ACN•. 1340157 (130f50) Synopsis A B777 Flight Attendant reported the entertainment system being shut down in flight, reportedly in response to smoke and fire at a passenger's power port. ACN: 1323952 (140f50) Synopsis An air carrier flight crew was advised by a Flight Attendant of smoke in the cabin associated with a passenger's personal computer. The computer was removed to a safe area and an uneventful landing was accomplished at the destination airport.
ACN:1323946 (150f50) Synopsis A pilot reported that while taxiing to the gate he was notified by a Flight Attendant of a fire in the cabin. The aircraft was stopped on the taxiway and the source of the fire was identified as an E-cigarette device. The fire was quickly extinguished and the aircraft proceeded to the gate where the passengers disembarked in an orderly manner. ACN: 1315633 (160f50) Synopsis CRJ Captain and Flight Attendant reported they noticed a faint burning odor which was traced to an overheating cell phone charger in the cabin. ACN: 1309194 (170f50) Synopsis A Flight Attendant reported that a passenger was not compliant in regard to stowing of baggage and electronic device usage. ACN: 1309168 (180f50) Synopsis A Flight Attendant reported an increase in passengers not complying with regulations and Flight Attendant instructions. ACN: 1282971 (190f50) Synopsis Air carrier Flight Attendant reported continuing issues with Personal Electronic Devices that the reporter feels pose a danger to the safety of flight. ACN:1279697 Synopsis A passenger smoking an e-cigarette in the aft lavatory during climb caused the ECAM and AFT LAV Smoke Detector to alert. The flight attendants notified the passenger about the deviation which allowed the alert to cease. The flight attendant cabin passenger briefing does not alert about the e-cigarette prohibition. ACN: 1263077 (21 Synopsis After departing the terminal, a Flight Attendant saw a passenger from the previous flight dump her purse contents on the sidewalk. When asked why, the passenger responded her electronic cigarette's safety was off and it melted some purse contents as she exited the aircraft earlier.
ACN:1253848 Synopsis A Flight Attendant used the aircraft's 120VAC system to charge a passenger's two Portable Oxygen Concentrator batteries inflight. She was uncertain about her company's electrical use policy. ACN: 1242472 (23 of50) Synopsis 3737 Captain reported possible interference from cell phones in the cabin that could account for the electronic anomalies they were experiencing during the flight. ACN: 1242337 (240f50) Synopsis Flight Attendant reported concern that she could be injured by unsecured tablets or other electronic devices used by passengers sitting across from her jumpseat if those passengers lost control of the device during a rejected takeoff or other unusual event. ACN: 1219051 (250f50) Synopsis 3767 flight crew reported deviating from ILS course and altitude on approach to SPIM because of an autopilot error, possibly caused by passenger cell phone use. ACN: 1159513 (260f50) Synopsis Air Carrier Captain experiences localizer oscillations during approach in VMC that he suspects may have been caused by an electronic device. ACN:1128249 (270f50) Synopsis CRJ-200 Captain experiences interference in his Bose X headset possibly caused by a cell phone. ACN: 973766 (280f50) Synopsis A passenger's Kindle Reader was crushed when a First Class Sleeper seat was retracted causing a fire and smoke. A Flight Attendant put the fire out while the flight crew accomplished the Smoke and Fire Checklist, including declaring an emergency. ACN: 950259 (290f50)
Synopsis CRJ200 First Officer reports compass system malfunctions during initial climb. When passengers are asked to verify that all electronic devices are turned off the compass system returns to normal. ACN•. 903581 (300f50) Synopsis A passenger's small inverter connected to a seat power port and powering a personal DVD player overheated causing an electrical burning smell in the First Class cabin. The smell dissipated when the inverter was disconnected. ACN: 868920 (31 Synopsis An SF-340 First Officer reported experiencing a compressor stall on initial climb. The engine was successfully stabilized and the flight continued normally. ACN•. 844270 (320f50) Synopsis An air carrier crew declared an emergency while on approach after the Purser reported an electrical smell in the cabin. After deplaning a passenger reported that his laptop computer was emitting electrical fumes in the airport lobby and may have been doing so in the aircraft. ACN: 809070 (330f50) Synopsis A FLIGHT ATTENDANT QUESTIONED WHETHER A SLEEP APNEA DEVICE WAS LEGAL FOR USE IN FLIGHT. ACN: 786587 (340f50) Synopsis MD80 CAPTAIN REPORTS FAILURE OF ALL RESPONSIBLE AGENCIES TO ENSURE PROPER AUTHORIZATION FOR A PASSENGER'S OXYGEN CONCENTRATOR. FAILURE OF THE UNIT CAUSES IN-FLT ISSUES. ACN: 783677 (350f50) Synopsis 8777 FA REPORTS PAX TOSSING MELTING BATTERY TO FLOOR 4.5 HOURS INTO TRANSOCEANIC FLIGHT. ACN: 755983 (360f50)
Synopsis 8777 PLT REPORTED THAT A PAX PURCHASED AN MP3 CHARGER FROM DUTY FREE. WHEN THE CHARGER WAS USED, IT OVERHEATED AND DESTROYED THE MP3 PLAYER. ACN: 754696 (370f50) Synopsis IN AN APPARENT PED INTERFERENCE EVENT, A PAX'S PORTABLE GARMIN GPS MODEL NUVI 660 ALLEGEDLY INTEFERED WITH A B737 CLASSIC'S (NO GLASS) DME NAVIGATION UPDATE FUNCTION. ACN•. 740664 (380f50) Synopsis A PLT REPORTS A PAX 9V BATTERY BECAME TOO HOT TO HOLD AND WAS PUT IN ICE. CREW MEMBER ASKS FOR PUBLISHED GUIDANCE ABOUT HOW TO HANDLE SUCH DEVICES. ACN•. 732079 (390f50) Synopsis ACR CAPT RPTS A BATTERY EXPLODED IN THE CABIN ON A FLT FROM SOUTH AMERICA RESULTING IN SMOKE IN THE CABIN. FLT CONTINUED TO DEST. ACN: 731104 (400f50) Synopsis 3737-800 DIVERTS DUE TO CABIN SMOKE AND FUMES. SOURCE IDENTIFIED AFTER LNDG AS A PAX COMPUTER PLUGGED INTO ACFT AC SYSTEM. ACN: 722561 (41 of50) Synopsis 8757 FLT ATTENDANT RPTS PAX USING CELL PHONE DURING DSCNT WHO BECOMES ARGUMENTATIVE. ACN: 718753 (420f50) Synopsis A FLT ATTENDANT RPTS A PAX EXPERIENCES AN OVERHEATING AND SMOKING LAPTOP POWER ADAPTER. FLT ATTENDANT USES A HALON EXTINGUISHER ON THE ADAPTER, BUT THE EXTINGUISHER IS CHARGED WITH LIQUID INSTEAD OF HALON. ACN: 710996 (430f50) Synopsis
MD80 CABIN ATTENDANT RPTS PAX WOULD NOT TURN OFF LAPTOP COMPUTER ON DSCNT AND WAS TALKING ON MOBILE DEVICE BEFORE LNDG. ACN:710572 (440f50) Synopsis FLT ATTENDANT ABOARD DC9 RPTS PAX REPEATEDLY USING CELL PHONE AGAINST CREW INSTRUCTIONS. ACN: 702630 (450f50) Synopsis CAPT OF AN A320 RPTS VHF INTERFERENCE ON ZOB ARTCC FREQ FROM A CELL PHONE ABOARD HIS PLANE. ACN: 701732 (460f50) Synopsis 3767-200 CABIN CREW HAS PAX USE GPS. ACN: 681689 (470f50) Synopsis A B757-200'S L FUEL GAUGE BLANKED AFTER TKOF AND BECAME OPERABLE PRIOR TO LNDG. CREW SUSPECTS POSSIBLE PED INTERFERENCE. ACN: 673795 (480f50) Synopsis 8737-800 FLT CREW EXPERIENCED SEVERAL TCAS RA'S ALLEGEDLY GENERATED BY A WI-FI ENABLED LAPTOP COMPUTER. ACN: 661013 (490f50) Synopsis FLT CREW OF CRJ-700 RPTS THAT AURAL INTERFERENCE IN VHF COMS CEASED WHEN PAX WERE ASKED TO ENSURE ALL FORMS OF 2-WAY COMS WERE TURNED OFF. ACN: 649113 (500f50) Synopsis A B767 LANDS SHORT OF DEST DUE TO SMOKE AND FUMES CAUSED BY OVERHEATING OF A PAX PROVIDED PWR PORT SPLITTER USED TO OPERATE 2 PERSONAL COMPUTERS.
Report Narratives
Time / Day Date : 201707 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8757 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1469656 Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Troubleshooting Events Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Electronic Device Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Security Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : Pre-flight Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Primary Problem : Company Policy Narrative: 1 While reviewing the paperwork before the flight, I noticed the aircraft had a lost cell phone in its maintenance history. A passenger reported they dropped an iPhone behind the sidewall panel at seat 38F near the floor. When the aircraft landed in ZZZZ, maintenance attempted to find the phone to no avail, and the aircraft returned to the US. Finally,
Maintenance removed a cargo access panel and found the phone. My flight was 2 days later on this aircraft, but I feel it is unsafe to dispatch aircraft with known "lost" phones. It seems this is Company's policy, as a similar event happened on a flight I was to fly, but the mechanic did find the phone before I had a chance to refuse the aircraft. I was told by the Operations Manager that Company deems it an acceptable risk. Does the union have an official position on this growing "problem"? I was asked by the union to submit a report regarding this issue to help facilitate a discussion with the safety board. In light of exploding batteries and obvious security issues, I personally would not fly any aircraft with a lost phone. I understand there are a lot of electronic devices in the cargo holds, however we have fire suppression for those areas. This particular phone was behind the cargo hold, not in it. Synopsis 8757 Captain reported concern regarding company policy regarding cell phones which are lost/left on aircraft and not recovered before the aircraft is dispatched for subsequent flights.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Ground : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : A319 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Taxi Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 1212 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1467436 Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Cabin Activity : Safety Related Duties Cabin Activity : Service Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.FIight Attendant : Current Experience. Flight Attendant.Total : 17 Experience. Flight Attendant.Airline Total : 17 Experience. Flight Attendant.Number Of Acft Qualified On : 7 Experience. Flight Attendant. Type : 60 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1468226 Events Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Smoke / Fire / Fumes / Odor Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Electronic Device
Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event Detector. Person : Passenger Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : Taxi : Illness Result.GeneraI : Physical Injury / Incapacitation Result.Flight Crew : Overcame Equipment Problem Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Equipment / Tooling Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Ambiguous Narrative: 1 During taxi in to the gate, I answered a cabin call from [the lead flight attendant]. He informed me that there was a fire in the cabin. I told the captain immediately after. The captain stopped the airplane quickly and he set the brake. There was ramp construction in front and to the right of the aircraft that would be blocking a possible evacuation of the aircraft (heavy equipment, personnel, etc.). The captain asked me to call ground and inform them we have a fire and to roll the emergency equipment. I informed ground that we had a fire in the cabin, that we had stopped the aircraft, to roll the emergency equipment, and to standby for a possible evacuation of the aircraft. The captain asked me to pull up the evacuation checklist in the QRH, which I did in Content Locker on my iPad. [The flight attendant] called us back and told us the other flight attendants were fighting the fire and that a laptop was having a runaway battery fire. We told him that we had emergency equipment on the way to the aircraft and to let us know if we needed to evacuate the aircraft. I had started the APU upon landing, and it was available for power and air. The captain asked me to shut down the engines in case we needed to run the evacuation checklist. I shut down both engines and we remained on APU power. I relayed souls on board and fuel on board to ATC when they asked. [The flight attendant] called back and said that the fire was out, but that one or possibly both of the aft flight attendants had sustained injuries. I believe the captain asked if the situation was under control and if we could taxi to the gate. There were still people up in the aisle of the aircraft. While the flight attendants got everyone re-seated, we started up the number one engine. [The flight attendant] called back and said everyone was seated and we advised ground that we could taxi to the gate and that we would need medical assistance as soon as we parked at the gate. As we started to taxi in, I advised company on the ops frequency what happened and that we would be requiring medical assistance for our flight attendants and possibly some passengers. The captain made a PA to advise everyone to remain seated and that emergency personnel would be entering the cabin. We taxied into the gate uneventfully and parked the aircraft. We completed the parking checklist, and I opened the flight deck door to render any assistance in the cabin (by this time the EMT's and firefighters had already entered the cabin and were rendering assistance). Once the item that had caught fire was removed, and the flight attendants were given aid, we had the passengers deplane the aircraft normally. I called the Duty Manager to inform them what had happened and the captain coordinated with Maintenance as well our Chief Pilot. Narrative: 2 We landed normal and taxiing in when a passenger got up. I reminded them they all had to be seated and that is when they yelled fire! This is when I noticed smoke in the cabin, I immediately called the flight deck to tell them we had a cabin fire and to stop the plane.
I grabbed an H20 extinguisher and proceeded to fight the fire. My number 2 Flight Attendant had already extinguished the suspect item. Went back to phone to call flight deck to tell them it was out and that we had 2 hurt flight attendants and a hurt passenger from the immediate stop. #2 flight attendant had put water and then ice to cool and put out the fire. We discovered that they were lithium batteries! How did these items get through security and why was he carrying them as a carry on? This is going to become more of a threat the more and more electronic devices that we have or allow on board the planes. Synopsis A319 First Officer and a Flight Attendant reported a cabin fire from a passenger battery thermal runaway during taxi-in.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B737-800 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1457917 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.FIight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Passenger Misconduct Passenger Electronic Device Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 While the passengers were boarding, the Number 1 Flight Attendant told me a passenger yelled at her in front of the first class passengers. She wanted the passenger removed. I was hesitant thinking it was just an outburst. I received another report from a male flight
attendant saying she wanted help with her bag. The flight attendant told her he does not put passenger bags in the overhead. She told him [this company] does not want to help her because she is black. I told him just tell her to behave. We pushed back from the gate. I got a call saying the passenger would not turn off the cell phone and she was calling to make a complaint. I told him, 0k, I am going to make a PA. During the PA I said, if the passenger using the phone does not turn it Off we were going to go back to the gate. I didn't hear another complaint until we were deplaning. I was told she was complaining and trying to get other passengers riled up during the flight. She was recording the flight attendants during their service. When she was getting off she said it was the worst flight she had ever been on, and what kind of landing was that? The first officer said she was cursing and complaining all the way into the building. I was worried about an incident like the flight where the passenger refused to deplane and was dragged out. After the flight when I heard she was accusing [this company] of racism, recording the crew, and the crew saying she was looking for a confrontation it confirmed my suspicion. Maybe the woman was looking for compensation or celebrity status. A first officer gave me a good suggestion the same day. He said, if the passenger does not deplane, everyone must deplane. When everyone gets off. Allow everyone on except the unruly passenger. I think after 9/11 the passengers were very respectful of the crews. Since then, it has diminished. Synopsis 3737 Captain reported they had an uncooperative passenger who was apparently attempting to provoke a reaction and receive compensation.
Time / Day Date : 201704 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.SingIe Value : 11000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8737 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : GPS Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Initial Approach Airspace.Class E : ZZZ Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.FIight Crew : Captain Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew.Last 90 Days . 155 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1441841 Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Attendant Events Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Smoke / Fire / Fumes / Odor Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Electronic Device Detector. Person : Flight Attendant When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors
Narrative: 1 We were on the arrival into [destination] when the Flight Attendants notified us there was an electronic device emanating smoke in the cabin. I directed the flight deck crew to don oxygen masks and set the regulators to 100 percent and established crew communication. I then [advised] ATC and asked for direct [destination]. Shortly thereafter, the Flight Attendants notified us that the device and its spare batteries (which were also in a state of thermal runaway) were contained in the ion battery emergency containment bag and there was no smoke. The device was apparently an e-cigarette. As the device was contained and there was no smoke, I elected to discontinue the QRH. However, the flight deck crew remained on oxygen for the duration of the approach and landing. Approach and landing were uneventful. My biggest concern is that after attempting to notify the Flight Attendants that we were on oxygen, I never called them back. They were making announcements on my first attempt and I simply dropped calling them back off my to-do list. They were surprised when we landed and were surrounded by Fire Rescue. Distraction management continues to be an issue for all flight crews. As a Check Airman, I should have done a better job of communicating. Better use of all my resources would have kept this from happening. I found myself doing the lion's share of the work in the cockpit when I had a very competent First Officer to help me. Simply dividing a few more of the tasks would have freed up my mind and allowed me to think more clearly. Synopsis 8737 Captain reported the flight crew donned oxygen masks and asked for direct destination after a Flight Attendant reported smoke in the cabin related to thermal runaway of an e-cigarette battery.
Time / Day Date : 201704 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZZZ.ARTCC State Reference : US Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : EMB ERJ 170/175 ER/LR Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass A : ZZZ Component Aircraft Component : Communication Systems Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1438580 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Distraction Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Attendant Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Electronic Device
Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Detector. Person : Flight Crew Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Ambiguous Narrative: 1 Radio static interference was experienced during cruise phase of flight due to a probable cause of a Portable Electronic Device (PED) not set in airplane mode. The forward flight attendant was instructed to check the cabin and verify if any first class passenger was using a PED that may have been the cause of radio static interference. The forward flight attendant refused and failed to comply with flight deck instructions. A PED was not set in airplane mode and the contributing factors are the forward flight attendant may have had her PED not set to airplane mode or a first class passenger may have been using a PED not set to airplane mode. It is unknown, yet highly suspected that this was the probable cause a radio static interference. Ensuring the compliance Of flight attendants following policy and procedures regarding the use of PEDs while on duty. Synopsis EMB-175 First Officer reported radio static interference which was suspected to be from Flight Attendant or passenger electronic device use.
Time / Day Date : 201703 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : EMB ERJ 170/175 ER/LR Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : GPS Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.Class A : ZZZ Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 1620 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1433099 Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1433101 Events
Anomaly.FIight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Electronic Device Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Smoke / Fire / Fumes / Odor Detector. Person : Passenger Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : FLC complied w / Automation / Advisory Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Equipment / Tooling Primary Problem : Equipment / Tooling Narrative: 1 FA reported that a first class passenger reported to them that his portable battery was heating up and smelled like burning plastic. FA put the battery in a container with water as per their procedure and notified us that they had done that and there was no irregularities at this time. We advised them to carry on with their procedures and monitor the battery. Advised dispatch of the situation as well. Looking into if this particular type of battery pack is good for flight. Make: Uniden Model: WM4807 Narrative: 2 While cruising at FL350, we got a call from a flight attendant. Flight attendant informed us that a passenger handed a phone charging battery pack that smelled like "burnt plastic. " Flight attendant said that the pack was not hot to the touch when the passenger handed it to her, but it did have a smoky smell. The FAs followed the FAM procedure for Lithium battery fires that say to submerge the device in water. When we got the call they already completed this procedure and there was no further sign of smoke or fire. Therefore, I decided that declaring an emergency would not be needed in this case. Instead, we continued the flight with caution, monitoring the condition of the battery pack. We verified that the flight attendant's manual procedures where complied with, notified dispatch and asked the FAs to keep monitoring the condition of the battery pack. The passenger was charging his phone with the device while this happened. It was not connected to the PC outlet. Synopsis EMB-175 flight crew reported a passenger's portable battery overheated so the Flight Attendant placed the battery in a water container as per company procedure.
Time / Day Date : 201612 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZZZ.ARTCC State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 36000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B737 Next Generation Undifferentiated Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass A : ZZZ Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 97 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1408483 Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 194 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 800 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1408481 Human Factors : Other / Unknown Events Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Smoke / Fire / Fumes / Odor Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Electronic Device
Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Illness Detector. Person : Flight Attendant When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Landed As Precaution Result.FIight Crew : Diverted Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Company Policy Narrative: 1 During cruise at FL360, we were notified by the A FA that a battery charger, which a passenger in the front row was using to listen to music on her mini iPod, had overheated (which had produced smoke) and was now contained and no longer producing smoke. The FAs said the smoke had produced an odor throughout the cabin. We referenced the QRH and the Aircraft Operations Manual (AOM). Per the AOM "if the source of the smoke can be positively identified and easily contained a mutual decision made by the Flight Deck Crew and Cabin Crew to continue to destination might be a sound one." Dispatch was contacted and made aware of the situation. After discussing the situation once more with the FAs, the decision to divert was made. Dispatch and ATC were made aware of the decision and the Divert Checklist was completed with consideration being given to the overweight landing. Due to the divert being a precautionary measure an emergency was not declared. During the descent, the FAs requested Paramedics meet the aircraft due to an ill Passenger. The flight concluded safely at the gate with Paramedics and Maintenance meeting the aircraft. The battery charger remained at the [diversion airport]. The divert was a non-event. It was only after all checklists were complete that the event became stressful due to the excessive number of phone calls! STOP calling the Flight Crew! Have one contact point for us to contact after we have taken care of our passengers! I want to help Dispatch, Maintenance, Operations, Chief Pilot on Call, Scheduling etc., but let us call you when our duties on the ground have been completed. We will give you a detailed description of the event ASAP! Narrative: 2 While coordinating to continue the flight to the flight's original destination we were seemingly bombarded by multiple questions from multiple agencies in [Operations]. While the questions were not likely intended as accusations or threatening, the repetitive and probing method of questioning on a recorded line seemed very threatening to the Flight Crew and elevated the stress level of an already resolved event, exponentially and unnecessarily. Upon return the Flight Crew requested to be removed from the remainder Of the pairing due to the elevated stress caused by the conversations with the [Operations personnel] in conjunction with the seemingly routine divert. Synopsis B737 flight crew reported diverting after a passenger's charger overheated resulting in smoke and an odor in the cabin. The flight crew expressed concern over the number and tone of communications from Operations.
Time / Day Date : 201610 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : LAX.Airport State Reference : CA Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Ramp : LAX Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Large Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1398160 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Electronic Device Anomaly.FIight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate Result.Flight Crew : Returned To Gate Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 After starting engines I got a call from the purser/number I that she believed she had an FAA banned Samsung Galaxy 7 phone on the flight. She said her phone was receiving a WIFI signal from the phone and showed me a picture. Ramp requested that we move off
the ramp as we were blocking traffic. I requested that ground put us on another ramp which they said they didn't have. Ground kept moving us around the airfield. A couple of PAS were made by the number 1 requesting the person with the FAA banned device identify themselves by ringing their Flight Attendant (FA) call button. The flight attendants got no response. I read the pilot alert messages to the number I FA stating, "if a NOTE 7 is discovered after gate departure the FAs will instruct the passenger to disconnect the device from any charging source, turn the device off, and keep it in a place where constant visual monitoring can be accomplished." There is no requirement to return to the gate if a NOTE 7 is discovered on board as long as the passenger complies with instructions. The passenger would not identify themselves even after I made a PA. I notified dispatch as I could not determine if the phone was in the cabin or cargo. Dispatch told me to return to the gate to get the issue resolved. I also needed fuel after the delay back up to release fuel. I told the passengers we were returning to the gate to have the aircraft searched for the Samsung phone. As I approached the gate, the number one called me and stated a passenger had turned in a Samsung Galaxy S7 phone. I met the Chief Pilot on the jet bridge with the passenger who turned the phone over to the Chief Pilot. The aircraft was refueled. The passenger was reseated saying he didn't know he had a banned phone, as it was a gift. The flight departed with a total 5+13 delay. Synopsis An air carrier Captain reported that a Flight Attendant identified a banned electronic device on board the aircraft after engine start. When the unit could not be located, the aircraft returned to the gate.
Time / Day Date : 201610 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B737 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 159 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1398031 Human Factors : Time Pressure Human Factors : Training / Qualification Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 183 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1398051 Events
Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Electronic Device Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Crew Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate Result.Flight Crew : Became Reoriented Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Shortly before closing the front entry door and beginning our flight, I, the Captain, was notified that there was a Passenger with a Samsung Galaxy Note 7 phone onboard. Our Flight Attendant came forward and told us the phone could not be onboard, and I agreed, but the Agent told us that was not correct and the phone just needed to be off and on the person. The FO and I quickly referenced [the pertinent bulletin]. I quickly read the "PILOT ACTION" section that stated ..the Crew Member must instruct the Passenger to power off the device, not to use or charge the device, and to keep in on their person..." I then showed the Agent and "A" Flight Attendant. The two of them instructed the Passenger what to do and complied. After we arrived, the FO and I had ground time before connecting to our next flight and that's when I read the entire bulletin beginning with the "EVENT" section. That is when I knew we were initially correct but referenced the wrong section of the bulletin. I notified our Chief Pilot the next morning and explained our issue and was instructed to submit a report. I am totally at fault and responsible for this error In non-compliance. However, I rely on the "PILOT ACTION" and use it as a flow chart/risk matrix. The PILOT ACTION talks about what the Crew is to do and then how to react to Passengers with the Galaxy Note 7. I believe that the section pertaining to before flight in the EVENT section should be in the PILOT ACTION section. The EVENT tells me what the topic is, but the PILOT ACTION tells me how to handle the EVENT. In the future, I will read the entire bulletin when referencing to make sure I don't miss a key piece of explanation. While we were not rushed, it was very close to push time which led to me scanning the bulletin. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis 8737 flight crew reported confusion in company policy related to a passenger who brought a Samsung Galaxy Note 7 phone on board.
Time / Day Date : 201610 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : DCA.Airport State Reference : DC Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 13500 Environment Flight Conditions : IMC Light : Daylight Ceiling.Single Value : 11000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : PCT Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : EMB ERJ 145 ER/LR Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Descent Airspace.Class E : PCT Component Aircraft Component : ILS/VOR Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.FIight Crew : Captain Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1394414 Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Electronic Device Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Crossing Restriction Not Met Anomaly.Deviation - Track / Heading : All Types
Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.FIight Crew : Returned To Clearance Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Result.Aircraft : Equipment Problem Dissipated Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 We had FMS MELed due to database so we were operating using green needles. My FO was recently out of training (60 hours). We had been given a heading to join the 117 radial to AML since ESL was out of service and descend via starting at DRUZZ. We intercepted what was indicating the 117 radial the HSI needle was jumpy. We crossed DRUZZ at 15000 and continued descent to be at or above WEWIL at 14000. I was what I thought was passed WEWIL according to our indications and I had slowed descent to be at or above 12000 at NEVYR. ATC asked us about our altitude and that we were low for WEWIL (we were at about 13500). They showed us 2 miles SW of WEWIL. I replied that we showed passed WEWIL and immediately asked for vectors since at that point it was evident we were not getting correct indications on our nav. ATC gave us a heading and altitude and direct AML when able. We turned to that heading and went to the assigned altitude, which was lower than our current altitude which to me at least meant while we may have missed a crossing, at least there was no traffic below us. Upon descending to 11000 on the new heading, we then broke out of the clouds and at that point had IAD and AML in sight and knew the new heading given by ATC was indeed getting us to AML. I verified with ATC that we were direct AML and they agreed that we were now heading the right direction. The rest of the STAR and descent went uneventful. The threats for this event were 1) No FMS in single FMS aircraft, leading us to rely on conventional nav, which is known to have errors. The sole source of navigation gave us no means of backup to verify until ATC advised us of the deviation. 2) Having a low time FO who was on his first flight ever into DCA which can be overwhelming, and then adding no FMS on top of it which I believe was a first for him in the plane. While he was giving assistance as he could, being new, in a complex environment, with a nonstandard aircraft (MELs) If in this situation again, I would definitely query ATC to verify that we are indeed where the indications say we are. We had briefed the arrival before descent and both felt we were ready for the arrival. I don't think if I was in this situation I would not accept the aircraft for this flight, but as I said earlier, I would definitely verify with ATC a lot more. Thought about loading flight plan in FMS using expired database, but decided against that because with an out of date database, getting possible inaccurate backup data could lead to far worse situation. It seems like at altitude when going to a station vs from or abeam a station, the green needles are never very strong. I don't know if this is due to the VOR antenna being on the
tail, and when the station is off the nose, the signal having to pass through the cabin where there is a multitude of possible personal electronics, some which may not be in airplane mode. When we departed DCA, we tracked FROM AML for 130 miles to the west and since the station was behind us, the needle was strong the entire way. Later in the flight we were given a 90 degree turn to BSV VOR, when BSV was off our side, it was strong, but once we were heading at it, it went back to its not as strong ways, If it is determined that passenger electronic interference is an issue, would this possibly be a situation where we may need to inconvenience passengers and at least while in terminal area, have all electronics off and not just airplane mode to account for passengers that may have something on and inadvertently not in airplane mode. This is an issue I have run into before when using conventional nav in the enroute and early terminal area, but luckily this is the first time where there has ever been a deviation due to it. Synopsis EMB-145 Captain reported being dispatched with the single FMS deferred inoperative and using VORs for navigation. The navigation became less reliable and the crew descended early on the arrival. PCT intervened and the crew received vectors and altitudes to the airport.
Time / Day Date : 201607 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Daylight Ceiling : CLR Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Ground : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8767 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Taxi Cabin Lighting : High Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Cabin Activity : Safety Related Duties Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.FIight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1372671 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Attendant Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Other Events Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Electronic Device Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : Taxi Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 Human Factors Procedure The safety demo had completed. I was walking through the cabin from my position at row 31L and saw that the blue light in the aisle was lit, notifying me of electrical outlet use, at 35DEF. I stopped, saying, "I have an indication that the electrical outlet is In use; we need to have all electronic devices unplugged for takeoff and landing." 35D and E looked at me confused. 35F was asleep with headphone on and didn't stir. I repeated it. Still nothing. We determined it was F. I spoke up to get the attention of the passenger, unable to reach him. The FA on the other side was still far away. The passenger opened his eyes and looked at me. I repeated my line a 3rd time. He said, "What?" I repeated it a 4th time, still loudly. He then took off his head phones and asked me to repeat it a 5th time. By this time I was fairly [irritated] and repeated it louder and more firmly. He complied. I got 2 rows further and found another person with a device plugged in who had not heard me shouting and I had to repeat this request 2 more times. The use of PEDs during safety checks, the demo, and before landing is a dangerous practice. It puts flight attendants at risk as it takes us longer to ensure compliance with people who are not paying attention and we have to work at getting it. Whether it's for electrical outlets in use, tray tables down or seats back, PED use has made it much more difficult to ensure the safety of other passengers and ensure I'm in my jump seat in a timely manner. PED use should no longer be allowed when passengers should be able to respond quickly to commands and requests from working crew. Synopsis Air carrier Flight Attendant reported being concerned about passenger use of electromc devices during safety checks and would like to see the policy changed to not allow their use at those times.
Time / Day Date : 201607 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZZZ.ARTCC State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 26000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 3737-800 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.Class A : ZZZ Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1372295 Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1372472 Events Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Smoke / Fire / Fumes / Odor Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Electronic Device Anomaly.FIight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Illness Detector. Person : Passenger Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : In-flight
Result.Flight Crew : Landed As Precaution Result.FIight Crew : Diverted Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Equipment / Tooling Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Equipment / Tooling Narrative: 1 Approximately 1 hour into flight #1 flight attendant (FA) called and alerted me that a passenger had a portable battery charger that was hot to the touch. I asked if they were doing the procedure for a battery/ Personal Electronic Device (PED) fire overheat. He replied in the affirmative. 15 minutes later the #1 called and said he, #2 and #4 FAs were experiencing headaches and nausea. Also the device was emitting a burning plastic electrical smell. At that one I elected to divert to [a nearby suitable airport]. We were met by emergency personnel who removed device. At that time EMS checked out flight attendants and passengers in rear of the cabin. We were cruising at FL260 when this event occu rred. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis 3737-800 flight crew reported being informed by the lead Flight Attendant of an overheated battery charger. Fifteen minutes later he was informed that some of the flight attendants were experiencing headaches and nausea and the Captain elected to divert to a suitable airport.
Time / Day Date : 201603 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Environment Weather Elements / Visibility : Cloudy Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8777-200 Flight Phase : Descent Cabin Lighting : Medium Number Of Seats.Number : 242 Passengers On Board.Number : 161 Crew Size Flight Attendant.Number Of Crew : 11 Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Cabin Jumpseat Cabin Activity : Service Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Experience. Flight Attendant. Total : 28 Experience. Flight Attendant.Airline Total : 28 Experience. Flight Attendant.Number Of Acft Qualified On Experience.FIight Attendant. Type : 40 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1340157 Events Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Smoke / Fire / Fumes / Odor Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Electronic Device Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Overcame Equipment Problem Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Ambiguous Narrative: 1 Approximately I hour before landing our purser made an announcement that, due to a malfunction of the entertainment system, all entertainment and power ports will be shut off, and remain off until gate arrival. Note: not unusual, we had issues with the Inflight
Entertainment (IFE) at takeoff. I was informed by another crew member that there had been an electrical fire/smoke at a [first class] passenger seat, from the power port. [A passenger] said "it was probably because "that guy" had plugged too many things into the power port" I [did] not directly witness [the event], nor did I know which seat was involved. There was no other indication that there was smoke in the cabin. Synopsis A B777 Flight Attendant reported the entertainment system being shut down in flight, reportedly in response to smoke and fire at a passenger's power port.
Time / Day Date : 201601 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZZ.Airport State Reference : FO Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Widebody, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Cruise Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1323952 Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Time Pressure Events Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Smoke / Fire / Fumes / Odor Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Electronic Device Detector. Person : Flight Attendant When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.FIight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations Contributing Factors / Situations Primary Problem : Ambiguous Narrative: 1 : Company Policy : Human Factors
Approximately one hour after takeoff the number one flight attendant informed me that a passenger's computer started to smoke and get hot. The computer was shut down and the smoking stopped. I directed the flight attendants to run their high energy battery fires checklist. The computer was placed in an empty catering cart and placed in the rear of the aircraft. All checklist items were observed. At approximately 30 mins from landing the number one flight attendant called the cockpit to inform me that the computer was again getting hot. I [advised] ATC and was given traffic priority for an approach into [our destination]. Crash fire rescue was requested but never showed up. After parking at the gate again no fire personnel showed up. I decided to roll the catering cart with the computer off the aircraft and onto the jet bridge. We then deplaned all passengers. Ground personnel removed the computer from the catering cart and returned it to the passenger. Synopsis An air carrier flight crew was advised by a Flight Attendant of smoke in the cabin associated with a passenger's personal computer. The computer was removed to a safe area and an uneventful landing was accomplished at the destination airport.
Time / Day Date : 201601 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZZ.Airport State Reference : FO Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Ground : ZZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B737 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Taxi Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1323946 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Troubleshooting Analyst Callback : Attempted Events Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Electronic Device Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Smoke / Fire / Fumes / Odor Detector. Person : Flight Attendant When Detected : Taxi Result.General : Maintenance Action Result.Aircraft : Aircraft Damaged Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Company Policy Narrative: 1 During taxi to the arrival gate in ZZZZ, an E-cigarette battery in a passenger's small carry- on bag overheated causing the combustion of the bags contents. The smoldering bag and burning battery were quickly neutralized using the onboard fire extinguisher. The Flight Attendant involved deserves recognition and commendation for her quick situational assessment and corrective action. No personal injuries or schedule disruptions occurred during this event. This was the text describing this incident in the required report and I will attempt to describe it more fully here. After a normal flight, we were taxing in to our new scheduled gate when we heard 8 or 9 chimes from the cabin and was informed by the #1 FA "There's a fire." I quickly ask several questions and got "Inside the airplane, the last several rows in back, there are flames, that's all I know I'll call you right back." I stopped the jet a couple of airplane lengths from the terminal in case we had to evacuate and got more information on what was happening. A very short time later I was informed about the E- cigarette fire, that the fire was extinguished but that there was some smoke left over in the back few rows. I elected to continue to the gate and deplane the passengers in quick but orderly fashion. NO one knew how the E-cigarette caught on fire. The passenger had placed it inside a paper bag with some napkins and then inside his backpack under the seat in front of him. In the process of putting out the fire in the backpack, the [paper] bag was removed and burned up (all paper products) leaving the battery in flames on the aircraft carpet. It took several attempts with the fire extinguisher to stop the battery fire. The descriptions of the battery on fire reminded witnesses of a lit ground firework that throws off sparks and spins around, and sounded to me very similar to the laptop battery fire videos I have seen. The passenger stated that he had not used the E-cigarette in flight and had it "turned off. " From the nervous demeanor of the young passenger I do not consider his statement completely reliable. I wrote up in the logbook the possible damage for maintenance inspection and the use of the fire extinguisher for replacement. I agree that actually using E-cigarettes is a disruptive annoyance to people nearby, especially people trapped in an airplane together. I am unfamiliar with their power source, however, and this quickly extinguished incident might have been very different if the battery was buried deeply in a bag stowed in the overhead bin or in the cargo compartments. Can you turn the battery off/disconnect or is it always ready and charged up for the user to draw upon? Does this "always on" state cause the battery to overheat or was it damaged somehow to self-destruct in such a way? Should these devices be banned on airplanes? This battery was small but burned long enough and hot enough to catch anything nearby on fire. If it were up to me I would ban the batteries and allow the empty E-cigarette device. Synopsis A pilot reported that while taxiing to the gate he was notified by a Flight Attendant of a fire in the cabin. The aircraft was stopped on the taxiway and the source of the fire was identified as an E-cigarette device. The fire was quickly extinguished and the aircraft proceeded to the gate where the passengers disembarked in an orderly manner.
Time / Day Date : 201512 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Regional Jet 200 ER/LR (CRJ200) Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Descent Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.Flight Crew : Captain Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1315633 Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Troubleshooting Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Cabin Activity : Service Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant In Charge Qualification.FIight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1315645 Human Factors : Troubleshooting Events Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Smoke / Fire / Fumes / Odor Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Electronic Device
Detector. Person : Passenger Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Primary Problem : Environment - Non Weather Related Narrative: 1 We were approximately 18-20 min out. I noticed the cabin temperature was a bit cold and I turned the temp controller to about the 3 0'clock position to warm up the cabin. About a minute or two after that, the First Officer (FO) and I noticed a faint smell in the air. It was somewhere between a musty warm smell and an electrical insulation smell. It was not strong at all, and it in no way caused irritation to the eyes or lungs. Just then the Flight Attendant (FA) called forward to report the same thing, as well as it being at bit warm air temp wise for passengers. While the FO was talking to the FA, I turned on the cockpit overhead white light to see if there was any "pooling" of smoke in the top of the ceiling. Just as a hunch as the temp controller was the last thing adjusted, I felt the panel, cold to touch, and turned the control knob to full cold. I talked with the FA and told her what we were experiencing, she said the same and said she was going to look in the cabin and lav. I told her we were going to look into things on our side. The FO and I agreed that while this should be taken as a serious potential threat, that under the current circumstances and being inbound and close to our destination, that we had time to evaluate things further before a need to escalate our action and or needing to [advise ATC]. Within a few minutes of turning the heat knob down, the smell lessened and disappeared entirely. While we were pleased to see a result in our action, we were still vigilant that there could still be a problem unseen. We did not know this yet, but the temp control movement and resulting dissipation were entirely coincidental. The FA called forward and told us that she had found the problem. As she made her way back in the cabin, a passenger alerted the FA that she had a battery powered cell phone charging unit that had gotten very hot while actively charging her phone and was emitting a smell. The FA took the unplugged unit and removed the AA batteries from the charger and then called us. I told her to hang on to the unit until we deplaned the aircraft. The smell was completely gone and we arrived without any further issue. Post flight, I looked at the charger unit, and it looked like an EXTREMELY cheaply manufactured charging unit. There was no visible scorching or soot on the unit, but the open unit itself smelled exactly like what all 3 of us had smelled earlier. I talked to the passenger and thanked her profusely for immediately bringing it to the FA attention, and had the unit returned to her. She said she was amazed how hot the unit got while in use, and that it had been a gift item. She said it would never be used again. I want to thank the passenger for stepping forward and helping us to avoid a potential aircraft smoke emergency situation, and highly praise the professionalism, calmness and excellent communication skills that the FA demonstrated in handling this situation. Maintenance was notified and agreed it was not an aircraft issue, but a faulty passenger electronic device issue. Narrative: 2
I smelled plastic burning odor. Informed the Flight Deck. Flight Deck said they smelled the odor and thought it was glycol in the heat ducts because they just turned up the heat. I immediately searched the cabin and smelled it up near the MCD. I thought it was the heat duct near the MCD. Went to the back of the plane to inspect. No odor. Came forward. The Passenger approached me and said is this what you are looking for. It was a handheld battery pack for a cellular device and was giving off the distinct odor that I was looking for. It was malfunctioning but no smoke fire or injury occurred. At that point I immediately informed the flight deck. They instructed me to confiscate the device and hold until landing. Synopsis CRJ Captain and Flight Attendant reported they noticed a faint burning odor which was traced to an overheating cell phone charger in the cabin.
Time / Day Date : 201511 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Q400 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Parked Flight Phase : Taxi Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Cabin Activity : Boarding Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.FIight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1309194 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Attendant Communication Breakdown. Party2 : Other Events Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : Taxi When Detected : In-flight Assessments Passenger Misconduct Passenger Electronic Device Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1
Final walk through the cabin I noticed passenger had a small backpack on his lap. I asked him to stow it. He became defensive and loudly said to me "NO ONE HAS EVER ASKED ME TO DO THAT." I asked again, and explained it was considered a carry on and therefore needed to go in the overhead, as he had no seat in front of him to stow it underneath. He again stated he had never been told to do that. He opened it and started to remove paperwork and personal items, and the passenger next to him asked me if that was 0k. I said, yes he could secure those items in his hand, but not the backpack. I then placed the backpack in the overhead. As we were on the taxiway same passenger was on his phone. Passenger behind him looked at me to get my attention and pointed, at passenger and his phone and mouthed to me "he is on the internet." I tapped passenger on his shoe to get his attention and asked if he was in airplane mode. He replies, loudly, "YES 1 AM AND WILL YOU STOP TOUCHING ME?" I answered, "of course." Passenger behind him, then taps him on the shoulder and says, "I would appreciate it if you would do as you are asked, and get off your phone." The father Of the disruptive passenger turns around and states the son is using a certain app that isn't on the internet. The passenger who spoke up, looks at me and shakes his head. The disruptive passenger does not comply. When I hear the after takeoff chime, I go to the back galley and explain to [other Flight Attendant] what has been happening. We decide to switch and she will now [takes that part of the cabin]. This switch avoided further conflict between the disruptive passenger and myself. I don't believe I committed any errors. Passenger was not receptive to following directions, or to any verbal contact with me. Synopsis A Flight Attendant reported that a passenger was not compliant in regard to stowing Of baggage and electronic device usage.
Time / Day Date : 201511 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.SingIe Value : O Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Taxi Flight Phase : Landing Flight Phase : Takeoff Component : 1 Aircraft Component : Seatbelt Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Improperly Operated Component : 2 Aircraft Component : Cabin Address System Aircraft Reference : X Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Cabin Activity : Safety Related Duties Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.FIight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1309168 Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Attendant Communication Breakdown. Party2 : Other Events Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Electronic Device Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy
Detector. Person : Flight Attendant When Detected : In-flight Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 This report applies to many flights that I have worked for several months. There seems to be a pattern of passengers not complying with flight attendant instructions. Generally seat belt sign, or getting prepared for takeoff or landing, getting up after the 10,000 feet announcement, arguing general requests regarding safety etc. Some of this I attribute to passengers using their own electronic devices and earphones prior to takeoff and landing and therefore cannot hear our announcements. Some is just a sense of entitlement and their rights to do as they wish regardless of our instructions. On this particular flight, passengers were getting up and using the restrooms on our approach. Passengers were still putting away bags in the overheads after we had completed our checks and passengers were delaying turning off lap tops after several requests for them to do so. I have delayed writing this report to see if this was isolated, but it continues to happen on the majority of my flights. Synopsis A Flight Attendant reported an increase in passengers not complying with regulations and Flight Attendant instructions.
Time / Day Date : 201507 Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Approach Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Cabin Activity : Safety Related Duties Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.FIight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1282971 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Passenger Misconduct Passenger Electronic Device Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I was in the aisle assisting with the preparation for landing. I reached IOF and noted a woman with her seat back. Her tray table was down and her back pack was behind her legs. I asked that she bring her seat forward and she did not react. She had her head forward, pressed against the seat in front and scrolling on her PED with ear buds in her ears. I repeated my request a bit louder, but still, there was no reply. The man seated next to her was asleep, also with headphones on and also seemed to not hear me. Unable to reach the woman, I again requested that she prepare for landing, louder still, but again, there was no response from her. Finally, the man behind her jostled her seat and she looked up at me a bit startled. I again asked that she prepare for landing but she had to remove her ear buds. For the 5th time, I asked this young lady to stow her bag, raise her tray table and return her seat to the upright position. Still, the man next to her remained
silent with his eyes closed. With more seats to check, I found 22A was unable to hear my request that his laptop be turned off and stowed and his tray table returned. I saw that row 26 had their blue light indicating an electronic device was still plugged in. I asked them to unplug their device, but the man in 26E couldn't hear me and I had to wait for him to remove his headphones for him to hear me ask again that he unplug his PED. Upon returning to the first class area to take my seat, I also had to ask twice of 8B and 9E to unplug items from the outlets, as required by the FAA. These are again examples of why the use of PEDs should not be allowed for approach and landing. Passengers are unaware of our efforts to provide a safe environment and our being in the aisles longer to seek compliance puts us at risk of injury, or worse, if it gets overlooked by flight attendants, puts passengers at risk of injury or not making a safe evacuation in the event of an emergency. We pride ourselves on situational awareness to be prepared for an emergency and expect our passengers to be able to hear commands and requests for complying with FAA requirements that seats be upright, bags stowed, seat belts fastened and tray tables returned, yet we are not able to do this efficiently because passengers are not situationally aware of their surroundings. Other passengers get frustrated, such as the man shaking her seat and pressing it forward before she was ready to bring it upright. Sometimes, we are not able to go down the aisles in situations where there is turbulence and we ask our passengers to comply over the PA. For those lost in their PEDs with head phones, they cannot hear us. Synopsis Air carrier Flight Attendant reported continuing issues with Personal Electronic Devices that the reporter feels pose a danger to the safety of flight.
Time / Day Date : 201507 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZZZ.ARTCC State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 12000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : A321 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Climb Airspace.CIass E : ZZZ Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1279697 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Attendant Communication Breakdown. Party2 : Other Events Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Smoke / Fire / Fumes / Odor Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Electronic Device Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Detector.Automation : Aircraft Other Automation Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : Police / Security Involved
Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.FIight Crew : FLC complied w / Automation / Advisory Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Passenger in aft lav with e-cigarette caused Lav Smoke ECAM warning during climb out at about 12,000 ft. Flight attendants quickly took care of the situation. ECAM message cleared after a few seconds. Reported incident to Dispatch and they said GSC (Ground Security Coordinator) agent would meet us at the gate in our filed destination. Passenger didn't know e-cigarettes were not allowed. Possibly mention e-cigarettes not allowed during F/A passenger briefing. Synopsis A passenger smoking an e-cigarette in the aft lavatory during climb caused the ECAM and AFT LAV Smoke Detector to alert. The flight attendants notified the passenger about the deviation which allowed the alert to cease. The flight attendant cabin passenger briefing does not alert about the e-cigarette prohibition.
Time / Day Date : 201505 Local Time Of Day : 0001-0600 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Attendant : Off Duty ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1263077 Events Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Electronic Device Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Result.General : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 We had landed and the crew was leaving the terminal. I saw one of our pax just outside the terminal door with all the contents of her purse spread all over the sidewalk. As I walked past her I heard her tell someone that her purse was smoldering and smoking. I walked back to her and re-introduced myself as one of her flight attendants on the flight. I asked her what was going on. She said and showed me that her electronic cigarette had melted several items in her purse. As she was leaving the plane and walking through the terminal, she realized that something was wrong and she hurried outside to dump her purse. She discovered that the safety was off on her Electronic cigarette. We did not do anything wrong in this situation, but I felt the need to report this in order to point out the danger of fire. If the timing was even a little different it could have resulted in a fire on board the aircraft. Synopsis After departing the terminal, a Flight Attendant saw a passenger from the previous flight dump her purse contents on the sidewalk. When asked why, the passenger responded her
electronic cigarette's safety was off and it melted some purse contents as she exited the aircraft earlier.
Time / Day Date : 201504 Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : A321 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Cabin Activity : Safety Related Duties Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1253848 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Electronic Device Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Became Reoriented Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Passenger's POC (Portable Oxygen Concentrator) low/neg battery level required the use of 2 POBs for duration of flight. Under this circumstance, could exception be made to charge POC battery using onboard 120V outlet? Synopsis A Flight Attendant used the aircraft's 120VAC system to charge a passenger's two Portable Oxygen Concentrator batteries inflight. She was uncertain about her company's electrical use policy.
Time / Day Date : 201502 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : EWR.Airport State Reference : NJ Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 10000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : PHL Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8737 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Descent Route In Use.STAR : PHLB03 Airspace.Class B : PHL Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 8783 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 44 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 7800 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1242472 Human Factors : Other / Unknown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Electronic Device Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Overcame Equipment Problem
Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Over the course of the entire flight, we experienced frequent and multiple ACARS interruptions with "ACARS NO COMM" messages. In most cases, reselecting the ACARS comm frequency did not help - we also had to cycle COMM3 from DATA to voice and back to DATA. On the PHLB03 STAR into EWR, in VNAV PATH with A/P A engaged, the path was maintained, but the programmed speeds were not (the forecast descent winds were generally accurate). Approaching 10,000, I switched to LEVEL CHANGE in order to slow to 250 knots as the A/P was attempting to descend at 271 knots. It's possible that both were caused by interference, so I requested a PA to insure that all cell phones were switched off or in the airplane mode. After this announcement, there were no further issues. Synopsis B737 Captain reported possible interference from cell phones in the cabin that could account for the electronic anomalies they were experiencing during the flight.
Time / Day Date : 201502 Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Takeoff Flight Phase : Landing Flight Phase : Taxi Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Cabin Jumpseat Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1242337 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Electronic Device Detector. Person : Flight Attendant When Detected : In-flight When Detected : Pre-flight When Detected : Taxi Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Primary Problem : Company Policy Narrative: 1 Passengers sitting directly across from my jumpseat had electronic tablets out during taxi, takeoff and landing. I was uncomfortable with this and afraid for my own safety should we have had an event such as an unplanned evacuation or even an aborted takeoff and these unsecured objects came flying at my head. I also feel that the use of electronic devices by those in the exit row could delay their ability to assist in an emergency due to distraction. During taxi, one of the customers across from me had reclined his seat as we had been on the tarmac for a while. I had to physically get up from my jumpseat and tap him on the shoulder to remind him to put his seatback up, as he was so engrossed in his tablet that he didn't hear or see me try to get his attention. I was sitting literally two feet away from him-directly in front of his seat, and he didn't notice me for about 2 minutes. Our announcement book addresses electronics only by saying that they can be used in airplane safe mode, but must be "secured or held during taxi, takeoff and landing", therefore I could not require these customers to stow the tablets in a seat pocket (on sidewall of
aircraft) or in an overhead (OH) bin, as they were complying with [Airline's] policy of being "held." Also, since use of the devices is allowed, even in exit rows where people are supposed to be "ready, willing and able" to assist, I cannot ask a customer in an exit row to turn off their device. However, our requirement has always been (and still remains) that ALL items must go in OH bin if one is seated at a bulkhead--which the seats across from 2L/2R as well as 3L/3R are. Therefore, customers are being "allowed" to have potentially dangerous items out during critical phases of flight, with the potential to harm the crewmembers sitting directly in front of them- I believe in violation of our own and possibly FAA policies. The safety training that I have received from my company has always emphasized that no carry-on items can be out and "un" stowed during taxi/takeoff/landing due to the potential harm they could cause if the aircraft should stop suddenly. Yet since the implementation of the new electronics policy, these devices, made of metal and glass, cease to be "carry-on items" and seem to have been made exempt from all safety concerns, regardless of their potential ability to harm their owners or others. Customers using electronic devices at exit rows and who are required to be "ready willing and able" to assist in case of emergency, are also distracted by their own electronic devices during critical phases of flight. I am very uncomfortable with the way the electronics policies have been rushed into implementation with seemingly no regard to the safety of other people who could be harmed by flying tablets and phones, as well as the implications of a "plugged in and switched off" person at an exit row who is too distracted to perform their exit row emergency duties in a thorough or timely fashion. Synopsis Flight Attendant reported concern that she could be injured by unsecured tablets or other electronic devices used by passengers sitting across from her jumpseat if those passengers lost control of the device during a rejected takeoff or other unusual event.
Time / Day Date : 201411 Place Locale Reference.Airport : SPIM.Airport State Reference : FO Altitude.MSL.SingIe Value : 3200 Environment Flight Conditions : IMC Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : SPIM Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B767 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Final Approach Component Aircraft Component : Autopilot Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 31500 Experience. Flight Crew.Last 90 Days . 150 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 2000 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1219051 Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Experience.Flight Crew. Total : 16000
Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 250 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 6000 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1218962 Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Electronic Device Anomaly.Deviation - Track / Heading : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action Result.Flight Crew : Overcame Equipment Problem Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Primary Problem : Ambiguous Narrative: 1 Approximately 3 miles outside final approach fix, aircraft descending in FLCH to 2000 MSL, passing 3300-3200 MSL aircraft had LOC engaged and captured, aircraft started a 10-15 degree bank right away from the LOC course. Both pilots verbalized the deviation and as the PFD showed a LOC flag I disconnected the autopilot and transitioned to the standby ADIS which displayed normal course path displays and considered a missed approach nearing 2100 MSL when the First Officer confirmed visual sighting of the runway. I confirmed visual with standby ADI guidance, continued the approach manually meeting the 1000 and 500 foot stabilized approach criteria to an uneventful landing. No airport surface traffic was present to affect the LOC signal and arrival congestion prevented further discussion with the tower. I questioned the purser and he stated many people were on their cellphones even after making multiple announcements. This incident was identical to one I had years ago in a 737 on a simultaneous ILS landing IAH Runway 26L. Can't prove cellphones do this of course, and can't prove they do not. Heads Up Warning. Narrative: 2 On final apch to 15 (ILS Z) with the autopilot on, descending thru the bottom of the overcast layer, the acft started drifting right of course and was no longer following the glide path (drifting high). The Captain (CA) promptly took over hand-flying the acft below the wx to a visual apch and uneventful landing. Although a little high and right, the CA's prompt, correct actions saved a go-around in proximity to significant terrain, in the dead of night, and with both of us tired. Post-flight query of the F/As evidenced that numerous pax were using their cell-phones just prior to landing (possible causal effect?) Prior to the dramatic, un-alerted, insidious error of the autopilot, it had worked flawlessly leading us to question if frequency meaconing could be the cause of its failure (it simply no longer received the ILS data)? Not sure of cause. Synopsis B767 flight crew reported deviating from ILS course and altitude on approach to SPIM because of an autopilot error, possibly caused by passenger cell phone use.
Time / Day Date : 201403 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : RDU.TRACON State Reference : NC Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 4000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : RDU Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : MD-80 Series (DC-9-80) Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Nav In Use.LocaIizer/GIidesIope/ILS : Runway 5L Flight Phase : Initial Approach Airspace.Class C : RDU Component Aircraft Component : ILS/VOR Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1159513 Analyst Callback : Attempted Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Electronic Device Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Other / Unknown Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Ambiguous Narrative: 1 Aircraft Human Factors While conducting an approach to Runway 5L at RDU we experienced several intermittent full scale localizer fluctuations and a slight map shift as well. These fluctuations began to occur at around 4,000 feet msl. The weather was VFR and I asked the Tower if they had received any reports of problems with the localizer. They said no (from both aircraft preceding and following us) and that the ILS critical area was clear. The localizer fluctuations ended at about the marker. While we were landing in visual conditions, this would have required a missed approach in IFR weather. After arrival at the gate I asked the flight attendants if they noticed passengers using cell phones and other electronic devices. They indicated many were. I believe that it is possible many passengers are not leaving their PED's in airplane mode and this could contribute to the signal interruptions we were getting. A review of the aircraft maintenance log the following day showed no faults and 0k for service. Now that regulations have changed with regard to portable electronic devices, I believe we are going to see an increase in these type events. I think in addition to flight attendant announcements regarding our policy it would not hurt to have some random sampling of passenger's devices that are observed in use. They could ask to see the settings page to insure they are in airplane mode. Synopsis Air Carrier Captain experiences localizer oscillations during approach in VMC that he suspects may have been caused by an electronic device.
Time / Day Date : 201311 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.SingIe Value : O Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Regional Jet 200 ER/LR (CRJ200) Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Taxi Component Aircraft Component : Headset Aircraft Reference : X Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.Flight Crew : Captain Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1128249 Analyst Callback : Attempted Events Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Electronic Device Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Other / Unknown Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Other / Unknown Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate When Detected : Taxi Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Ambiguous Narrative: 1 Environment - Non Weather Related Procedure
I was encouraged by fellow pilots and a Chief Pilot to write a report based on the FAA decision to allow passengers electronic devices powered up during aircraft movement and my headset/electrical interference concern. I have a Bose X headset and I use the power on associated with the headset during critical phases of flight. I encounter electrical interference with my headset anytime someone has left their cell phone on during taxi, takeoff, climb and during arrival, landing, and taxi in to the terminal area. The noise is best described as an electrical radio seeking a source, similar to a cell phone near a car/house radio. It is not loud, but consistent "beeping" as the electrical item seeks a "radio" source. My concern is that with more electrical devices allowed, this could increase the noise and interference in headsets. My headset recently went through Bose maintenance for non-electrical issues (a bracket broke) and certified TSO worthy and returned to me for service; however, this issue happened prior to and still happens. I do not receive interference inflight after 10,000 feet when the cell phone service can no longer find a source. I would be curious if other Pilots across the aviation spectrum find an issue with cell phones on with noise reduction headset. Note, this Bose X does not receive power source from the aircraft, but provides its own battery pack for noise reduction operation. More study needs to happen to see about electrical interference before fully implementing passenger "open season" on electrical gadgets. Synopsis CRJ-200 Captain experiences interference in his Bose X headset possibly caused by a cell phone.
Time / Day Date : 201110 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZZZZ.ARTCC State Reference : FO Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 39000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.center : ZZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 3 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Descent Flight Phase : Cruise Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 17000 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 180 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 230 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 973766 Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Time Pressure Human Factors : Training / Qualification Events Anomaly.FIight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Smoke / Fire / Fumes / Odor Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Electronic Device Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Result.General : Declared Emergency Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.Flight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition
Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Passenger in a first class seat dropped a Kindle electronic reader on sleeper seat. At top of descent the seat was retracted crushing the Kindle and setting it on fire. Smoke and fire ensued. A Flight Attendant immediately put out fire with halon fire extinguisher. We declared PAN PAN PAN and ran the SMOKE AND FIRE electronic checklist. We got priority handling to our destination. Landing and taxi in was uneventful. Fire and Security met the plane. Synopsis A passenger's Kindle Reader was crushed when a First Class Sleeper seat was retracted causing a fire and smoke. A Flight Attendant put the fire out while the flight crew accomplished the Smoke and Fire Checklist, including declaring an emergency.
Time / Day Date : 201105 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZZZ.ARTCC State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 9000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Regional Jet 200 ER/LR (CRJ200) Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Climb Flight Phase : Initial Climb Route In Use : Direct Airspace.CIass E : ZZZ Component Aircraft Component : Compass (HSI/ETC) Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 2800 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 25 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 2300 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 950259 Analyst Callback : Attempted Events
Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Electronic Device Anomaly.Deviation - Track / Heading : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Detector.Automation : Aircraft Other Automation Detector. Person : Flight Crew Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Result.Aircraft : Equipment Problem Dissipated Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Ambiguous Narrative: 1 After departing, climbing through 9,000 FT we received an EFIS COMP MON caution message. Flight Manual directs pilots to slew compass to reliable side. It was apparent neither side was correct with the Captain's, magnetic compass, and First Officer's headings all different. We were cleared direct to a fix. Multiple attempts were made to match the headings with only temporary results. The Captain elected to hand fly while the headings mismatched. While the FMS was taking us in a direct line, with the wind shift while hand flying the aircraft ended up 4 miles south of the original "direct to" course. ATC called and asked if we were going direct, I told them we are having heading problems and asked how our heading looked. He told us 10 right and direct when able. On this trip we flew this same aircraft for 9 legs and did not have this problem on any other flight. In the past I have had similar events with speculation that cell phones left on may contribute to the heading problems. I made a PA asking our passengers to check their cell phones and make sure that they are off. Short of flying with both headings in DG we attempted to slew the compasses together again, and the EFIS COMP MON was cleared with no further messages. Our Flight Attendant called and asked if that had helped, I said yes, what did you do? He stated he walked through the cabin and spoke to each Of the 12 passengers. A passenger in Row 9 had an iPhone in the standby mode, not airplane mode or off. He showed the passenger how to turn the phone off fully. The flight continued to destination with no further problems. In my opinion and past experience the cell phone being on and trying to reconnect to towers on the ground, along with the location of row 9 to the instrumentation in the wing caused our heading to wander. The timing of the cell phone being turned off coincided with the moment where our heading problem was solved. Eight other flights in the same aircraft in two days span completed without a similar event. Synopsis CRJ200 First Officer reports compass system malfunctions during initial climb. When passengers are asked to verify that all electronic devices are turned off the compass system returns to normal.
Time / Day Date : 201008 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZOA.ARTCC State Reference : CA Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZOA Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8767 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Oceanic Airspace.Class A : ZOA Component Aircraft Component : Inverter Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : General Seating Area Cabin Activity : Service Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.FIight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 903581 Human Factors : Time Pressure Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Troubleshooting Events Anomaly.FIight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Electronic Device Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Smoke / Fire / Fumes / Odor Detector. Person : Passenger Detector. Person : Flight Attendant When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.Aircraft : Equipment Problem Dissipated Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Equipment / Tooling Primary Problem : Equipment / Tooling Narrative: 1 Approximately 3.5 hours before landing in HNL, I was walking through the first class aisle when I smelled the odor of something electrical burning. I immediately ran into the first class galley to see if the #3 Flight Attendant was smelling the same odor I was and was going to ask her to assist me in finding the source. The #3 advised me that she had already found the source of the odor. She stated that the passenger seated had a power inverter plugged into the power outlet and was powering the passenger's son's personal DVD player and that the inverter got really hot and started to smoke. Passenger immediately unplugged inverter and smoke stopped. She further advised that she instructed passenger to not use inverter. I immediately went to passenger and reiterated that inverter posed a possible danger and she was not to plug the inverter back in. I further advised that if I saw it plugged in, I would have to confiscate it. Later, another passenger seated nearby stated to me that he thought that the smell was coming from his inverter that he was using to charge his computer with and he unplugged his unit from the power port. Flight continued without further incident. Inverter that passenger used was rated at 15 Watts which is too small. DVD players usually operate at around 35 watts and laptop computers anywhere between 50-75 watts. This means that inverter used could not handle the load and therefore it overheated and could have resulted in a fire. Synopsis A passenger's small inverter connected to a seat power port and powering a personal DVD player overheated causing an electrical burning smell in the First Class cabin. The smell dissipated when the inverter was disconnected.
Time / Day Date : 201001 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ALO.Airport State Reference : IA Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Dawn Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : ALO Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : SF 340B Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Climb Flight Phase : Initial Climb Airspace.CIass D : ALO Component Aircraft Component : Turbine Engine Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 2800 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days . 11 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 1400 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 868920 Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Electronic Device Detector. Person : Flight Crew
When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Overcame Equipment Problem Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 Shortly after our morning departure we experienced a right engine compressor stall. This occurred at approximately 2500 FT MSL or 1600 FT AGL during the after take-off check. I was pilot flying and the Captain was pilot monitoring. Initially after the compressor stall, the aircraft heading yawed about 25 degrees to the right, which I promptly corrected, also made the expected pitch adjustments to compensate for the temporary loss of right engine thrust. Once stabilized I trimmed away the excess aileron and rudder forces then engaged the autopilot. The Captain advised Tower that we would remain on frequency with them a bit longer and then proceeded with the emergency non normal checklist. Within 5 minutes or less the checklist was complete, both engines were operating normally and we proceeded as usual. We did not declare an emergency. To add additional excitement to the morning, it turned out that a passenger on board must have seen flames from the engine during the stall. He apparently called a friend and told he or she that the aircraft was on fire! That person called Tower to relay the message, who then passed it on to ATC and our Dispatch. The enroute querying from everyone who received the incorrect information was an added distraction to our flight. We believe the stall occurred due to the extreme temperature inversion that had been present for the past few days. The temperature on the ground prior to take off was about - 9C and was about +8C aloft at 1600 FT AGL where the compressor stall occurred. Our passenger may have gotten over excited due to the continuous popping noises and most likely flames coming from the stalled right engine. I really don't know what can be done to help prevent this from reoccurring. We used the first flight of the day cold weather operating policy of bleed air on for take-off. I believe the Captain was careful in dialing down the CTOT/power. Maybe it's a mechanical issue that makes some engines more stall sensitive that others? I suppose a quicker explanation/announcement to the passengers could have kept them calmer, but it was certainly more important to take care of the problem at hand first. According to our flight attendants, the rest of the passengers were very good throughout! Synopsis An SF-340 First Officer reported experiencing a compressor stall on initial climb. The engine was successfully stabilized and the flight continued norr•nally.
Time / Day Date : 200907 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 13000 Environment Weather Elements / Visibility.Other Ceiling : CLR Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8737-300 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Descent Airspace.CIass B : ZZZ Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Experience.Flight Crew. Total : 17000 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 250 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 5300 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 844270 Human Factors Human Factors Human Factors Human Factors Person : 2 Reference : 2 : Distraction : Time Pressure : Troubleshooting : Situational Awareness Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 80 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 844267 Human Factors : Workload
Human Factors Human Factors Human Factors Events : Time Pressure : Distraction : Situational Awareness Anomaly.FIight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Smoke / Fire / Fumes / Odor Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Electronic Device Detector. Person : Passenger Detector. Person : Flight Attendant Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : In-flight Result.General : Physical Injury / Incapacitation Result.GeneraI : Declared Emergency Result.Flight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Equipment / Tooling Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Ambiguous Narrative: 1 Approaching the airport the ride was approaching moderate chop so I called the flight attendants to have them be seated. When the Purser picked up he informed me that there was an acrid smell like something electrical was smoldering. There were no obvious indications of fire or actual smoke in the cabin. The smell seemed to be isolated between rows 17 thru 20. I declared an emergency, told the flight attendants to review their evacuation procedure just in case but not to prepare the cabin, and notified dispatch via ACARS. We ran the smoke and fumes QRC checklist, including the additional items, and landed without incident. Upon landing the purser informed me the smell no longer was noticeable so we elected to have the fire department follow us to the gate and deplane normally. During the deplaning one passenger complained of difficulty breathing but declined paramedic help because she thought she knew what it was. I was later informed that once in the lobby she did request assistance and her status is unknown to me. The fire department found no evidence of fire during their post emergency inspection. I also was later informed that one of our passengers smelled the smell in flight but later thought he smelled it again in the lobby coming from his laptop computer. I informed maintenance of this and left. Narrative: 2 Flight attendants notified Captain of smoke smell (no visable smoke) in cabin between rows 17-20. We were about 15NM out on approach at 13,000 FT. Captain declared an emergency and was given a turn on downwind for an approach and started decent. Captain continued approach as I ran SMOKE/FUMES/ODOR checklist. Completed checklist and reference items, final decent checklist. Flight attendants did say the smell seemed to diminish once we were on final (this was also just after the checklist directed the left pack to be placed to off). Landed and continued to gate with fire trucks following. Synopsis An air carrier crew declared an emergency while on approach after the Purser reported an electrical smell in the cabin. After deplaning a passenger reported that his laptop computer was emitting electrical fumes in the airport lobby and may have been doing so in the aircraft.
Time / Day Date : 200810 Place Locale Reference.Airport : State Reference : US Aircraft Reference : X ZZZ.Airport ATC / Advisory.Center : ZZZ.ARTCC Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8777-200 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 3 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass A : ZZZ.A Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Qualification.Flight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 809070 Events Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Electronic Device Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Other Person Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Ambiguous Narrative: 1 Company Policy Human Factors WE HAD A CUSTOMER IN SEAT XXF WHO WAS IN POSSESSION OF A 'SLEEP APNEA' BREATHING MACHINE. HE WAS USING IT DURING FLT AND 1 WAS ASKED BY THE BUSINESS CLASS FLT ATTENDANTS IF HE COULD USE IT. WE ALL KNOW PAX ARE NOT ALLOWED TO USE THEIR OWN OXYGEN TANKS, HOWEVER THIS WAS NOT AN OXYGEN TANK. THE BUSINESS CLASS FLT ATTENDANTS AND MYSELF RESEARCHED THE FLT ATTENDANT MANUAL WHICH DID NOT INDICATE IF THE DEVICE WAS AN APPROVED ELECTRONIC NOR IF IT WAS A DISAPPROVED ELECTRONIC. AS PURSER 1 MADE THE DECISION THAT SINCE IT DIDN'T SPECIFICALLY STATE HE COULD 'NOT' USE IT AND SINCE TSA ALLOWED HIM THROUGH SECURITY WITH THE MACHINE, WE INDEED WOULD ALLOW HIM TO CONTINUE TO USE IT. 1 LATER CHKED THE FLT ATTENDANT MANUAL
AGAIN AND THERE IS NOTHING LISTED IF THESE MACHINES ARE APPROVED OR NOT. THIS ISSUE NEEDS TO BE ADDRESSED AS THE DISEASE OF SLEEP APNEA IS BECOMING MORE POPULAR IN TODAY'S SOCIETY. SO WAS THE PAX ALLOWED TO USE HIS OWN BREATHING MACHINE? Synopsis A FLIGHT ATTENDANT QUESTIONED WHETHER A SLEEP APNEA DEVICE WAS LEGAL FOR USE IN FLIGHT.
Time / Day Date : 200805 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Relative Position. Distance. Nautical Miles : O Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : MD-83 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 786587 Events Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Electronic Device Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly Deviation - Procedural : FAR Detector. Person : Flight Crew Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Company Policy Narrative: 1 DURING BOARDING IN ZZZ, THE AGENT INFORMED ME THERE WOULD BE A PAX USING AN OXYGEN CONCENTRATOR AND ASKED ME IF THERE WAS ANYTHING SPECIAL THAT WOULD NEED TO BE DONE. 1 TOLD HER 1 WOULD LOOK IT UP AND THAT IF SHE HAD ANY OTHER QUESTIONS CUSTOMER SVC WOULD BE A GOOD SOURCE OF INFO. THE MANUAL INDEX LISTS ONLY 1 REF TO OXYGEN CONCENTRATORS, ON PAGE X. TURNING TO PAGE X, 1 FOUND LOTS OF INFO REGARDING DANGEROUS GOODS FORBIDDEN UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES, TIRES, CONSUMER COMMODITIES, MUNITIONS OF WAR, ETC, BUT
ABSOLUTELY NOTHING ABOUT OXYGEN CONCENTRATORS. 1 FIGURED THAT THE INDEX WAS WRONG, SO 1 TURNED BACK 1 PAGE, AND 1 FOUND A REF TO OXYGEN CONCENTRATORS ON THE PREVIOUS PAGE. THIS REF INDICATES THAT CONCENTRATORS ARE PERMITTED AS CARRY-ONS, BUT ONLY FOR CERTAIN AUTH BRANDS, AND AN ENTRY IS GIVEN WHICH SHOWS THE BRANDS THAT ARE PERMITTED. 1 ASSUMED THAT THIS WAS THE 1 REF IN MANUAL THAT WAS REFERRED TO WITH THE INCORRECT PAGE IN THE INDEX, SO 1 CLOSED THE BOOK AND GAVE THE CODE TO THE AGENT WORKING THE FLT. SHE THEN TOLD ME THAT SHE HAD ALREADY CALLED CUSTOMER SVC, AND THAT THEY VERIFIED THAT THE UNIT IN QUESTION WAS AN APPROVED BRAND, AND THAT THERE WERE NO PROBS WITH TRANSPORTING THE PAX. WE DEPARTED, AND THE PAX'S UNIT IMMEDIATELY BECAME FAULTY. MUCH OF THE ONBOARD OXYGEN WAS USED, AND WE VERY NEARLY DIVERTED UNTIL A FLT ATTENDANT FIGURED OUT HOW TO CHANGE THE BATTERIES ON THE PAX'S UNIT. 1 AGAIN OPENED PART 1 TO GET GUIDANCE ON WHAT SPECIFIC INFO WOULD BE NEEDED BY THE PHYSICIAN-ON-CALL IN DISPATCH, AND WHEN 1 OPENED MANUAL, 1 JUST HAPPENED TO OPEN THE BOOK TO PAGE Z, WHICH IS AN ENTIRE PAGE DEVOTED TO PORTABLE OXYGEN CONCENTRATORS. AS IT TURNED OUT, THE PAX WAS REQUIRED TO HAVE A NOTE FROM A PHYSICIAN, WHICH SHE DID NOT. SHE WAS REQUIRED TO DEMONSTRATE AN ABILITY TO OPERATE HER OWN UNIT, WHICH SHE COULD NOT. THE FLT ATTENDANT WAS REQUIRED TO HAVE BEEN PROVIDED WITH PAPERWORK REGARDING THE CUSTOMER'S USE OF THE UNIT, WHICH WE NEVER RECEIVED. THE ONLY THING WE DID ON THE REQUIRED LIST OF ITEMS BEFORE DEP WAS TO VERIFY THAT THE UNIT WAS ON THE APPROVED LIST FOR USE INFLT. 1 FEEL THAT 1 WAS MISLED BY THE INDEX IN THE BOOK, WHICH CONTAINED ONLY 1 REF TO OXYGEN CONCENTRATORS, WHEN ACTUALLY THERE ARE 2. ALSO, THE 1 LISTED REF WAS FOR THE WRONG PAGE. WHILE 1 REALIZE THAT 1 AM RESPONSIBLE FOR THE ENTIRE CONTENT OF THIS MANUAL, THE INDEX LED ME DOWN THE WRONG PATH. ALSO, CUSTOMER SVC DID NOT SEEM TO KNOW THE PROC FOR CARRIAGE OF A PAX WITH AN OXYGEN CONCENTRATOR, AND URGES CAPTS TO ALWAYS TAKE THE ADVICE OF CUSTOMER SVC. Synopsis MD80 CAPTAIN REPORTS FAILURE OF ALL RESPONSIBLE AGENCIES TO ENSURE PROPER AUTHORIZATION FOR A PASSENGER'S OXYGEN CONCENTRATOR. FAILURE OF THE UNIT CAUSES IN-FLT ISSUES.
Time / Day Date : 200803 Place Locale Reference.Airport : State Reference : FO Aircraft Reference : X ZZZZ.Airport ATC / Advisory.Center : ZZZZ.ARTCC Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B777 Undifferentiated or Other Model Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Cruise Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.FIight Attendant : Current ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 783677 Analyst Callback : Attempted Events Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Detector. Person : Other Person Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Passenger Electronic Device Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 ABOUT 4 1/2 HRS INTO THE FLT, PAX BATTERY IGNITED. PAX TOSSED BATTERY TO FLOOR. LUCKILY, CAPT WAS RESTING IN PLT SEAT AND BECAME DIRECTLY INVOLVED. COLLECTED MELTED BATTERY AND PROCEEDED FROM THERE TO HANDLE. 1 ARRIVED AFTER THE INCIDENT AND OBSERVED CAPT PLACING MELTED BATTERY INTO A SACK TO BRING IN FOR HIS RPT. Synopsis 3777 FA REPORTS PAX TOSSING MELTING BATTERY TO FLOOR 4.5 HOURS INTO TRANSOCEANIC FLIGHT.
Time / Day Date : 200709 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : CZQX.ARTCC State Reference : NF Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 37000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Ceiling : CLR Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.center : CZQX.ARTCC Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8777-200 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 3 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass A : CZQX.A Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying ASRS Report Number.Accession Number Analyst Callback : Completed Events : 755983 Passenger Electronic Device : Smoke / Fire / Fumes / Odor Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event Detector. Person : Flight Crew Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Primary Problem : Company Policy Narrative: 1 A PAX PURCHASED AN MP3 RECHARGER FROM ONBOARD DUTY FREE. WHEN PLUGGED INTO HIS SEAT RECEPTACLE THE IPOD OVERHEATED, SMOKED AND WAS DESTROYED. THIS IS THE 2ND TIME THIS HAS HAPPENED ON ONE OF MY FLTS. THIS DEVICE IS A SEVERE FIRE HAZARD AND SHOULD BE REMOVED FROM DUTY FREE. CALLBACK
CONVERSATION WITH RPTR REVEALED THE FOLLOWING INFO: THE REPORTER STATED THAT THE FIRST INCIDENT WITH THIS CHARGER RESULTED IN AN MP3 PLAYER BECOMING HOT TO THE TOUCH. FOR THE REPORTED INCIDENT, HOWEVER, THE PLAYER OVERHEATED, PRODUCED SMOKE, AND WAS RUINED. THE REPORTER DOES NOT REMEMBER THE MANUFACTURER OR MODEL OF THE CHARGER THAT WAS BEING SOLD. HE HAS FLOWN THE SAME ROUTE SINCE THE REPORT, AND ALTHOUGH THE DEVICE APPEARED IN THE CATALOG, IT WAS NOT ABOARD THE ACFT FOR SALE. Synopsis 3777 PLT REPORTED THAT A PAX PURCHASED AN MP3 CHARGER FROM DUTY FREE. WHEN THE CHARGER WAS USED, IT OVERHEATED AND DESTROYED THE MP3 PLAYER.
Time / Day Date : 200708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 31000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZZZ.ARTCC Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 3737 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Climb Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass A : ZZZ.A Component Aircraft Component : FMS/FMC Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Engineer Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience.Flight Crew. Total : 16895 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 175 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 8000 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 754696 Analyst Callback : Completed Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Electronic Device Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy
Detector. Person : Flight Crew Result.Aircraft : Equipment Problem Dissipated Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 1 HAD THIS EXACT PROBLEM ABOUT 10 YEARS AGO UNDER THE SAME CIRCUMSTANCES. THIS EVENT OCCURRED IN THE SAME TYPE OF ACFT, A B737 [NON GLASS]. DURING CLBOUT AND INITIAL CRUISE, 1 NOTICED THE NAV RADIOS WERE IN AUTO UPDATE BUT THEY WERE NOT UPDATING. 1 THEN CHKED THE FMC STATUS OF THE IRS' AND FMC RADIO UPDATES. IT SHOWED DME UPDATING FAIL. BEFORE 1 COMPLETED A POSITION SHIFT, 1 (CAPT) CALLED THE FLT ATTENDANTS AND ASKED THEY DO A WALK THROUGH AND CHK FOR ANY PED'S. THEY FOUND A PAX WITH A HANDHELD GPS, GARMIN NUVI MODEL 660. ONCE THIS WAS TURNED OFF, THE FMC DME UPDATING WENT FROM FAIL TO ON AND THE RADIOS STARTED TO UPDATE AGAIN. THE FLT CONTINUED AND LANDED WITHOUT INCIDENT. THE ACFT WAS A 8737 'CLASSIC' MEANING ROUND DIALS AND NOT EFIS. IT HAD TWO IRS' WITH A SINGLE FMC BUT 2 FMC HEADSETS IN THE COCKPIT. CALLBACK CONVERSATION WITH RPTR REVEALED THE FOLLOWING INFO: THE RPTR STATED THAT HE WAS CONCERNED THAT BECAUSE HE HAD EXPERIENCED THIS SAME TYPE OF EVENT THREE TIMES IN THE LAST 10 YEARS AND ALL IN THE B737 ACFT WITH THE FMS SYSTEM BUT NO GLASS, THAT THERE MAY BE A COMMON THREAD. ONE PREVIOUS EVENT WAS CONFIRMED AS CAUSED BY PORTABLE GPS AND THE OTHER MAY HAVE BEEN A CELL PHONE CALL MADE JUST PRIOR TO LANDING. IN THE EVENT REPORTED HERE, THE DME FAILING TO UPDATE WAS THE FIRST INDICATION. HE NOW FLIES THE 8737 CLASSIC AS WELL AS THE 8737 NG'S. THE NG'S APPEAR TO BE MORE ELECTROMAGNETICALLY ROBUST. Synopsis IN AN APPARENT PED INTERFERENCE EVENT, A PAX'S PORTABLE GARMIN GPS MODEL NUVI 660 ALLEGEDLY INTEFERED WITH A 8737 CLASSIC'S (NO GLASS) DME NAVIGATION UPDATE FUNCTION.
Time / Day Date : 200706 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Cruise Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Other Function. Other. Other Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 740664 Events Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Electronic Device Anomaly.Other Detector. Person : Flight Crew Result.FIight Crew : Overcame Equipment Problem Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Ambiguous Narrative: 1 1 WAS TRAVELING ON A PASS. A PAX SEATED NEAR ME IN SEAT XXA PASSED ME A 9V ALKALINE BATTERY WHICH WAS BECOMING INCREASINGLY HOT. 1 COULD NOT HOLD THE BATTERY IN MY HAND BECAUSE OF THE HEAT INTENSITY. THE HEAT WAS OF AN INTENSITY, WHICH WOULD BLISTER SKIN. 1 PLACED THE BATTERY ON A MAGAZINE AND CARRIED IT TO THE AFT GALLEY AND PLACED IT IN A CUP OF ICE. 1 INFORMED THE CAPT BY INTERPHONE FROM THE AFT GALLEY. THE BATTERY RAPIDLY COOLED IN THE ICE. THE PAX WAS TRAVELING WITH 2 CHILDREN IN SEATS XXB AND XXC. QUESTION: IS THERE ADEQUATE FLT CREW GUIDANCE AVAILABLE IN PLT AND FLT ATTENDANT MANUALS OF PROCS TO HANDLE AN OVERHEATING BATTERY IN THE CABIN? IS PLACING THE BATTERY IN ICE THE PROPER PROC? A LARGE LAPTOP OVERHEATING BATTERY COULD PRESENT
INCREASED PROBS. 9V BATTERY HOT. PAX CARRY ON BATTERIES WHICH HAVE OVERHEATED HAVE BECOME A CABIN SAFETY ISSUE. Synopsis A PLT REPORTS A PAX 9V BATTERY BECAME TOO HOT TO HOLD AND WAS PUT IN ICE. CREW MEMBER ASKS FOR PUBLISHED GUIDANCE ABOUT HOW TO HANDLE SUCH DEVICES.
Time / Day Date : 200703 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.lntersection : DELMA State Reference : FO Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : SEGU.ARTCC Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Widebody Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 3 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass A : SEGU.A Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.FIight Crew : Captain ASRS Report Number.Accession Number Analyst Callback : Completed Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Person : 3 Reference : 3 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Reporter Organization : Air Carrier : 732079 Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Person : 4 Reference : 4 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Relief Pilot Events
Anomaly.FIight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Electronic Device Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Smoke / Fire / Fumes / Odor Detector. Person : Other Person Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Result.Aircraft : Aircraft Damaged Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 DURING THE FLT 1 WAS CALLED BY A FLT ATTENDANT, WHO NOTIFIED ME THAT THERE HAD BEEN AN EXPLOSION IN THE COACH CABIN. 1 BROUGHT THE RELIEF PLT BACK UP FROM BREAK AND WENT BACK TO CHK ON THE SITUATION. BY THEN THERE WAS NO SMOKE, AND 1 DETERMINED THAT NO ONE WAS INJURED. IT APPEARS THAT A BAITERY HAD BEEN THE ITEM THAT WENT OFF. WE FOUND PIECES OF IT IN THE AREA. THERE WAS NO DAMAGE TO THE ACFT (WITH THE EXCEPTION OF A SEAT CUSHION) AND NO ONE WAS HURT, SO 1 DECIDED TO PROCEED TO DEST. THE REMAINDER OF THE FLT WAS UNEVENTFUL. CALLBACK CONVERSATION WITH RPTR REVEALED THE FOLLOWING INFO: RPTR STATED THEY WERE UNABLE TO DETERMINE WHAT KIND OF DEVICE THE BATTERY HAD COME FROM, SINCE NO PAX WOULD TAKE RESPONSIBILITY FOR OWNING THE DEVICE AND/OR BATTERY. Synopsis ACR CAPT RPTS A BATTERY EXPLODED IN THE CABIN ON A FLT FROM SOUTH AMERICA RESULTING IN SMOKE IN THE CABIN. FLT CONTINUED TO DEST.
Time / Day Date : 200703 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Relative Position. Distance. Nautical Miles : 90 Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 38000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZZZ.ARTCC Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B737-800 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.Class A : ZZZ.A Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function. Flight Crew : First Officer ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 731104 Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Person : 3 Reference : 3 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Events
Anomaly.FIight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Smoke / Fire / Fumes / Odor Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Electronic Device Detector. Person : Other Person Result.GeneraI : Declared Emergency Result.FIight Crew : Diverted Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 FLT ATTENDANT RPTED AT CRUISE THAT THEY, ALONG WITH A GROUP OF PAX, SMELLED ELECTRICAL SMOKE IN THE CABIN NEAR ROW XX. WE WERE AT CRUISE AT FL380 90 MILES FROM ZZZ. THE CAPT AND THE PURSER WERE TRYING TO FIND THE SOURCE WHEN WE DECIDED TO DECLARE AN EMER AND DIVERTED TO ZZZ. SINCE THE SMELL WAS GETTING STRONGER AND ORIGIN UNKNOWN TO THE FLT ATTENDANTS AND PAX, 1 DECLARED AN EMER PER THE CAPT'S ORDER AND BEGAN A DSCNT FOR ZZZ. 1 WAS PF, AND THE CAPT RAN THE EMER CHKLIST AND WORKED ON FINDING THE SMOKE SOURCE AND BRIEFING THE PAX AND THE FLT ATTENDANTS. SHORTLY BEFORE LNDG, THE PURSER ADVISED THE SMOKE SMELL WAS GETTING LIGHTER IN THE AIR INDICATING TO US THAT THE EMER CHKLIST MUST HAVE ISOLATED THE SOURCE. AFTER LNDG, FIRE CREWS BOARDED THE ACFT AND WITHIN 30 SECONDS HAD ISOLATED AND LOCATED THE CAUSE OF THE SMOKE. A PAX IN SEAT XD HAD HER LAPTOP COMPUTER PLUGGED INTO A POWER PORT TO CHARGE HER BATTERY AND THE BATTERY ITSELF WAS 'OVERHEATING/SMOKING.' THE FIRE CREW GAVE THE UNIT TO US AND IT WAS HOT TO THE TOUCH AND HAD AN ODOR OF ELECTRICAL SMOKE ABOUT IT. MY REASON FOR THE RPT IS A NEEDED CHANGE TO THE CABIN SMOKE FROM AN UNKNOWN SOURCE CHKLIST(S). WE OBVIOUSLY ISOLATED THE SITUATION BY TURNING OFF THE POWER PORTS AS PART OF THE CHKLIST. MY CONCERN IS IF A LAPTOP IS IN THE OVERHEAD BIN AND SPONTANEOUSLY COMBUSTS, WE WILL NEVER KNOW IT IS NOT THE AIRPLANE. THE FLT ATTENDANTS OR OUR CHKLIST SHOULD HAVE A PLACE TO REQUIRE ALL PAX WITH BATTERY DEVICES OF ANY KIND LOCATE THEM AND INSPECT THEM DURING AN EMER OF THIS TYPE. IF WE COULD ISOLATE A CABIN SMOKE INCIDENT TO A COMPUTER VS. THE ACFT, IT MIGHT MAKE THE EMER MORE MANAGEABLE. IF A BATTERY DEVICE DOES CATCH FIRE, ONCE ISOLATED, IT MIGHT POSSIBLY BE LESS OF A THREAT TO THE ACFT AND PAX INFLT. Synopsis 8737-800 DIVERTS DUE TO CABIN SMOKE AND FUMES. SOURCE IDENTIFIED AFTER LNDG AS A PAX COMPUTER PLUGGED INTO ACFT AC SYSTEM.
Time / Day Date : 200612 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : LGA.Airport State Reference : NY Environment Ceiling : CLR Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : LGA.Tower Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B757 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Aircraft : 2 Flight Phase : Initial Approach Airspace.CIass B : LGA.B Cabin Lighting : High Passengers On Board.Number : Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X 100 Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.Flight Attendant : Current Qualification.Flight Attendant : 7 Experience. Flight Attendant. Total : 9 Experience. Flight Attendant.AirIine Total Experience. Flight Attendant. Type : 25 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Cabin Activity : Safety Related Duties Function. Other Person : 3 Reference : 3 Location Of Person.Aircraft 722561
Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Events Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Electronic Device Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Other Person Result.General : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 PAX WAS ON CELL PHONE DURING DSCNT TO MAKE A CALL. 1 TOLD HIM TO TURN IT OFF AND HE WAS EXTREMELY DEFENSIVE AND ARGUMENTATIVE. THE ARGUING AND VERBAL ABUSE CONTINUED ON THE GND. THE POLICE WERE CALLED OUT TO ISSUE A CITATION. MAN SEEMED A LITTLE MENTALLY IMPAIRED (NOT DRUNK). 1 CAN'T THINK OF ANY WAY TO PREVENT THIS TYPE OF INCIDENT HAPPENING AGAIN. Synopsis 8757 FLT ATTENDANT RPTS PAX USING CELL PHONE DURING DSCNT WHO BECOMES ARGUMENTATIVE.
Time / Day Date : 200610 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility State Reference : FO Aircraft Reference : X : ZZZZ.ARTCC ATC / Advisory.Center : ZZZZ.ARTCC Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8777-200 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Oceanic Airspace.Class A : ZZZZ.A Component Aircraft Component : Portable Extinguisher Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 718753 Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 718754 Person : 3 Reference : 3 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Person : 4
Reference : 4 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Other Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Electronic Device Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Smoke / Fire / Fumes / Odor Detector. Person : Other Person Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 Aircraft PAX AT SEAT ABC REPORTED TO ME THAT LAPTOP POWER ADAPTER THAT HE HAD JUST PURCHASED FROM ACRIS DUTY FREE HAD OVERHEATED AND IT WAS SMOKING. 1 TOOK THE ADAPTER TO DOOR IL WHERE FLT ATTENDANT PLACED IT IN AN EMPTY METAL ICE BUCKET AND PLACED IT ON THE FLOOR. FLT ATTENDANT NOTIFIED THE PURSER AND COCKPIT WHILE 1 TOOK THE HALON EXTINGUISHER FROM THE STOWAGE LOCATION (101) AT DOOR IL AND PROCEEDED TO FIGHT THE FIRE. ON DISCHARGING THE HALON 1211, WE WERE SHOCKED TO SEE A CLEAR LIQUID DISCHARGE FROM THE EXTINGUISHER. (NO POWDER.) THE ADAPTER WAS COVERED IN LIQUID AND BUBBLED FOR A WHILE. WE DID NOT FEEL THAT IT WAS NECESSARY TO USE A SECOND EXTINGUISHER AS THE FIRE AND SMOKE HAD CEASED. 1 AM GREATLY CONCERNED THAT IF IT WAS A COCKPIT FIRE OR A MORE SEVERE FIRE THAT THIS HALON EXTINGUISHER WOULD HAVE CAUSED FURTHER ISSUES, IE, WET LIQUID ON ELECTRICAL FIRE. Synopsis A FLT ATTENDANT RPTS A PAX EXPERIENCES AN OVERHEATING AND SMOKING LAPTOP POWER ADAPTER. FLT ATTENDANT USES A HALON EXTINGUISHER ON THE ADAPTER, BUT THE EXTINGUISHER IS CHARGED WITH LIQUID INSTEAD OF HALON.
Time / Day Date : 200609 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : CLT.Airport State Reference : NC Environment Weather Elements / Visibility.Other Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : MD-80 Series (DC-9-80) Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Approach Airspace.Class B : CLT.B Cabin Lighting : Medium Number Of Seats.Number : 136 Passengers On Board.Number : 136 Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Cabin Activity : Safety Related Duties Cabin Activity : Deplaning Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant In Charge Experience. Flight Attendant. Total : 16 Experience.Flight Attendant.Airline Total : 16 Experience. Flight Attendant. Type : 99 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 710996 Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Other Person : 3 Reference : 3 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Reporter Organization : Air Carrier
Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Events Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Electronic Device Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Other Person Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 PAX HAD A RED FLASHING LIGHT ON HER LAPTOP AFTER REQUESTING OVER PA ALL ELECTRONICS TO BE TURNED OFF. 1 APCHED HER AND ADVISED HER THE DEVICE NEEDED TO BE TURNED OFF, SHE SAID IT WAS. 1 AGAIN SAID THE PWR NEEDED TO BE TURNED OFF, SHE SAID IT WAS. 1 SAID IF THE DEVICE WAS OFF THERE WOULDN'T BE A RED FLASHING LIGHT. 1 SAID EVEN COMPUTERS NEEDED TO BE COMPLETELY OFF NOT IN STANDBY MODE. SHE SAID SHE HAD IT AS OFF AS IT WOULD GO. 1 RECOMMENDED SHE TAKE THE BATTERY OUT TO DISCONNECT THE PWR SOURCE. BEFORE TOUCHDOWN HER DEVICE (PHONE/PDA) WAS LIT UP WHITE AND GREEN LIGHTS AND SHE WAS ON IT. 1 MADE THE TAXI-IN PA AND THEN ADVISED PAX THAT THEIR CELL PHONES AND PAGERS COULD BE USED. SHE HAD BEEN ON HER PHONE WELL BEFORE BEING ADVISED SHE COULD. AS SOON AS THE SEAT BELT SIGN WAS TURNED OFF SHE RUSHED TO THE FRONT OF THE ACFT (WHERE 1 WAS) TO CONTINUE TELLING ME THAT 1 DIDN'T KNOW WHAT 1 WAS TALKING ABOUT. SHE WAS TRYING TO TELL ME ALL ABOUT HER DEVICE'S FUNCTIONS. 1 SAID 1 ONLY HAVE TO VERIFY IT'S OFF OR NOT XMITTING INFLT. SHE SAID 1 NEEDED TO TAKE THE BATTERY OUT OF MY WATCH BECAUSE IT WAS THE SAME THING. SHE THEN SAID 1 WAS CRABBY AND SHOVED HERSELF BY ME TO GET OFF THE ACFT. Synopsis MD80 CABIN ATTENDANT RPTS PAX WOULD NOT TURN OFF LAPTOP COMPUTER ON DSCNT AND WAS TALKING ON MOBILE DEVICE BEFORE LNDG.
Time / Day Date : 200609 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : DCA.Airport State Reference : DC Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Weather Elements / Visibility Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X : Thunderstorm ATC / Advisory. Tower : DCA.Tower Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : DC-9 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Taxi Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Experience. Flight Attendant. Total : 20 Experience. Flight Attendant.AirIine Total : 20 Experience. Flight Attendant.Type : 30 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 710572 Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Person : 3 Reference : 3 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Other Events
Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Electronic Device Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Misconduct Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Detector. Person : Flight Crew Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 PAX IN FIRST CLASS WAS TOLD TO PUT CELL PHONE AWAY FOR TKOF. FIRST CLASS FLT ATTENDANT LEFT FIRST CLASS TO TELL COACH FLT ATTENDANTS TO STAY IN JUMPSEATS AFTER TKOF BECAUSE OF BAD WX. WHEN SHE RETURNED TO FIRST CLASS, PAX WAS ON PHONE. SHE WAS TOLD AGAIN TO TURN OFF PHONE. ON TKOF, THE PAX'S CELL PHONE RANG. SHE ANSWERED IT AND BEGAN TALKING. SHE WAS TOLD TO TURN IT OFF! UPON DSCNT, WHEN ALL FLT ATTENDANTS WERE STRAPPED IN, THE PAX TOOK OUT HER PHONE AND STARTED DIALING. SHE WAS TOLD TO TURN IT OFF! AS SOON AS THE BACK WHEELS TOUCHED DOWN, SHE DIALED HER PHONE. SHE WAS A VERY FREQUENT FLYER. Synopsis FLT ATTENDANT ABOARD DC9 RPTS PAX REPEATEDLY USING CELL PHONE AGAINST CREW INSTRUCTIONS.
Time / Day Date : 200606 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.lntersection : WEEDA State Reference : OH Relative Position. Distance. Nautical Miles : 40 Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 30000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZOB.ARTCC Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : A320 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Descent Route In Use.STAR : WEEDA Airspace.CIass A : ZOB.A Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience.Flight Crew. Total : 17000 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 100 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 7000 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 702630 Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Person : 3
Reference : 3 Location Of Person.FaciIity : ZOB.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control Person : 4 Reference : 4 Location Of Person.Aircraft Function. Other Events : Enroute Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Electronic Device Detector. Person : Flight Crew Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 WE WERE ACR X DSNDING VIA THE WEEDA 1 ARR INTO DTW. WE HAD ZOB FREQ BLOCKED AND UNUSABLE BY A PAX CELL PHONE SEARCHING FOR SVC (THE PAX THOUGHT HE HAD IT OFF). THE PAX WAS IN SEAT 22-D WHICH WOULD HAVE BEEN NEAR THE ANTENNA LOCATION. ATC CONFIRMED THAT NO ONE ELSE WAS RECEIVING THE SIGNAL BUT US. THE SIGNAL QUIT ABOUT THE TIME THE CELL PHONE WAS TURNED OFF. DURING THE EVENT, ALL COMS ON THE FREQ TO AND FROM US WERE TOTALLY BLOCKED WHENEVER THE PHONE WOULD SEARCH FOR SVC. THIS OCCURRED ABOUT EVERY 20 SECONDS AND WOULD LAST FOR ABOUT 10 SECONDS DURATION. Synopsis CAPT OF AN A320 RPTS VHF INTERFERENCE ON ZOB ARTCC FREQ FROM A CELL PHONE ABOARD HIS PLANE.
Time / Day Date : 200606 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Environment Light : Daylight Ceiling : CLR Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZZZ.ARTCC Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8767-200 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass A : ZZZ.A Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.FIight Attendant : Current Qualification.FIight Attendant : 5 Experience. Flight Attendant.Total : 17.5 Experience. Flight Attendant.AirIine Total : 17.5 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 701732 Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Other Events Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Electronic Device Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Detector. Person : Flight Crew Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 GPS WAS BEING USED INFLT BY PAX. THE AIR MARSHAL OBSERVED HIM. HE WAS VERY SECRETIVE WHEN ASKED IF HE WAS USING SUCH A DEVICE. HE DENIED USING THIS. 1 FOLLOWED UP APPROX 15 MINS LATER AND HE DID HAVE A GPS. 1 ORDERED HIM TO PLACE IT IN HIS CARRYON BAG AND NOT TO REMOVE IT UNTIL HE DEPLANED. Synopsis 3767-200 CABIN CREW HAS PAX USE GPS.
Time / Day Date : 200512 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : SAN.Airport State Reference : CA Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : SCT.TRACON Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8757-200 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Climb Airspace.CIass E : SCT.E Component Aircraft Component : Indicating and Warning - Fuel System Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Function.FIight Crew : Captain ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : Analyst Callback : Completed Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Person : 3 Reference : 3 Location Of Person.Aircraft Function. Other Events 681689
Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Electronic Device Anomaly. Other Detector.Automation : Aircraft Other Automation Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 SHORTLY AFTER TKOF, THE L FUEL GAUGE BLANKED FOLLOWED SHORTLY AFTER BY THE TOTAL FUEL GAUGE. WHILE IN CLB, THE GAUGE CAME BACK FOR A FEW SECONDS THEN BLANKED AGAIN. THE L FUEL GAUGE REMAINED THAT WAY UNTIL THE LNDG PA WAS GIVEN, THEN SHORTLY AFTER THAT THE L FUEL GAUGE FUNCTIONED NORMAL. SUSPECT POSSIBLE INTERFERENCE FROM PAX ELECTRONIC DEVICE. UNFORTUNATELY THERE WAS NO TIME BEFORE ARR TO SEE IF THIS WAS THE CASE. SUGGEST THAT FLT CREWS BE MADE AWARE THAT THIS IS A POSSIBILITY IN THE EVENT SEE A BLANKING OF THE L FUEL GAUGE. CALLBACK CONVERSATION WITH RPTR REVEALED THE FOLLOWING INFO: RPTR STATED THAT GAUGE OPERATION/INOP WAS LIKE AN ON/OFF SWITCH AT APPROX 10000 FT COINCIDING WITH THE FLT ATTENDANT CABIN PED ANNOUNCEMENT. RPTR CAN NOT CHK HIS ACR'S ACFT MAINT RECORDS TO DETERMINE IF A MECHANICAL FAILURE WAS DISCOVERED DURING POST FLT MAINT. THE RPTR DID STATE THAT THE FAILURE'S POTENTIAL CAUSE DID NOT DAWN ON HIM UNTIL JUST PRIOR TO LNDG AND THEREFORE RPTR COULD NOT TROUBLESHOOT POSSIBLE DEVICE INTERFERENCE. THE RPTR INDICATED THAT THEY HAVE HEARD OF THIS EVENT OCCURRING ON OTHER 3757 ACET. Synopsis A B757-200'S L FUEL GAUGE BLANKED AFTER TKOF AND BECAME OPERABLE PRIOR TO LNDG. CREW SUSPECTS POSSIBLE PED INTERFERENCE.
Time / Day Date : 200509 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 1000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : A90.TRACON Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8737-800 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Takeoff Flight Phase : Initial Climb Airspace.Class B : BOS.B Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.Flight Crew : Captain ASRS Report Number Accession Number : Analyst Callback : Attempted Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Person : 3 Reference : 3 Location Of Person : Company Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Other Person : 4 673795
Reference : 4 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Person : 5 Reference : 5 Location Of Person.Facility : A90.TRACON Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Departure Events Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Electronic Device Detector.Automation : Aircraft RA Result.Flight Crew : Overcame Equipment Problem Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Ambiguous Narrative: 1 FLT XXX, A 8737-800 zzz-zzzl. AFTER TKOF NEAR MAX GROSS WT, PRIOR TO FLAP RETRACTION RECEIVED A RESOLUTION ADVISORY 'MAINTAIN VERT SPD' WITH RED AREA NOT TO DECREASE TO 1500 FPM OR LESS RATE OF CLB. DELAYED THRUST REDUCTION AND FLAP RETRACTION TO COMPLY WITH RA AND SCANNED FOR TFC. TCAS INDICATED A CO-ALT TARGET (RED CIRCLE) LESS THAN .01 BEHIND US. THIS OCCURRED AT 1000 FT MSL, AND CLRED UP APPROX 30 SECONDS LATER. SECOND RA OCCURRED NEAR 12000 FT MSL. SAME TARGET INDICATION, A RED CIRCLE CO-ALT LESS THAN .01 BEHIND US. NOW THE RA ADVISED 'DSND, DSND, DSND.' WE STARTED THE DSCNT, ADVISING ATC OF THE RA AND SCANNING FOR TEC. ATC ADVISED US THERE WAS NOTHING IN OUR VICINITY, AND TCAS WAS CLEAN OF TARGETS FOR NEARLY 10 MILES. BEGAN TO SUSPECT EMI FROM CABIN. STARTED TO CLB AGAIN IGNORING THE TCAS RA COMMANDS. THE BOX WAS QUIET. RECYCLED THE XPONDER POWER. AT 14000 FT, WE GOT A THIRD TCAS RA. SAME DISPLAY AND DSND CALLOUTS. WE IGNORED THEM. CALLED CABIN FOR A CHK OF EQUIP THAT MAY HAVE CAUSED INTERFERENCE. FOUND PAX SEATED IN FIRST CLASS WITH LAPTOP ON. MODEL HP 6220 WITH WIRELESS FUNCTION ENABLED. THE PAX CLOSED THE LID WHEN WE WERE BOARDING ON THE GND, PUTTING THE LAPTOP INTO STANDBY/HIBERNATE MODE. ONCE HE DISABLED THE WIRELESS FUNCTION, ALL 0K. THE TECH PEOPLE SHOULD GET A HEADS UP ON THIS. GUESS THE WIRELESS FUNCTION WAS TRYING TO ESTABLISH A CONNECTION AND EACH TIME IT DID (OR A FRACTION OF THE ATTEMPTS) WAS INTERPRETED AS A TCAS SIGNAL. (CO-ALT, .01 BEHIND US.) THE DISPLAY WAS A RED CIRCLE, NOT A RED SQUARE. NO YELLOW OR WHITE CIRCLES PRIOR TO ANY RA EVENTS. IS THE TCAS ANTENNA CABLE SHIELDED FROM INTERNAL (CABIN COMPUTERS) EMI? 1 HAVE NOT SEEN AN EVENT LIKE THIS BEFORE. WHAT MAKES IT HAZARDOUS IS THE RATE OF CLB AT DEP, PRIOR TO ACCELERATION AND FLAP RETRACTION AND THE 1500 FPM OR GREATER RATE OF CLB. (TRANSCON NEAR MAX TKOF WT.) WITH THE PROLIFERATION OF WIRELESS COMPUTERS, 1 AM SURE WE WILL BE SEEING THIS MORE OFTEN. Synopsis
3737-800 FLT CREW EXPERIENCED SEVERAL TCAS RA'S ALLEGEDLY GENERATED BY A WI-FI ENABLED LAPTOP COMPUTER.
Time / Day Date : 200506 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : CLT.Airport State Reference : NC Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 13000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Daylight Ceiling : CLR Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZTL.ARTCC Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier 10 Make Model Name : Regional Jet 700 ER/LR (CRJ700) Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Climb Route In Use.SID : PAN6.PAN Airspace.CIass B : CLT.B Component Aircraft Component : VHF Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 3200 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 160 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 250 ASRS Report Number.Accesslon Number : 661013 Person : 2
Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Person : 3 Reference : 3 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Electronic Device Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Crew Result.Flight Crew : Overcame Equipment Problem Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Ambiguous Narrative: 1 Aircraft Human Factors ON CLBOUT FROM CLT WE HEARD WHAT SOUNDED SIMILAR TO A FAX MACHINE SOUND OR A MODEM SOUND. WE THOUGHT IT WAS JUST AN ANOMALY, BUT IT HAPPENED AGAIN AND AGAIN IN REPETITIOUS INTERVALS. 1 ASKED THE CAPT WHAT HE THOUGHT, AND HE SAID IT WAS PROBABLY A 2-WAY PAGER BECAUSE A SIMILAR INCIDENT OCCURRED TO HIM A FEW TRIPS AGO. HE FOUND THAT OUT AFTER ASKING A FLT ATTENDANT TO INVESTIGATE THE SITUATION, AND SHE FOUND SOMEONE WAS TYPING MESSAGES ABOVE 10000 FT MSL SO THAT THEY COULD BE SENT UPON LNDG. WE ASKED OUR FLT ATTENDANTS TO TAKE A WALK THROUGH THE CABIN TO SEE IF ANYONE WAS USING ANYTHING OF THE SORT. NONE WERE FOUND AFTER SHE RPTED BACK TO US. HOWEVER THE ANNOYING NOISES STILL CONTINUED. IT WAS ANNOYING AND LOUD ENOUGH TO ALMOST CAUSE US TO ALMOST MISS RADIO CALLS. SO, AN ANNOUNCEMENT WAS MADE TO PLEASE MAKE SURE CELL PHONES AND 2-WAY PAGERS WERE TURNED OFF BECAUSE IT WAS INTERRUPTING OUR COMS, AND IF THIS WAS NOT DONE WE MAY HAVE TO RETURN TO CLT. AFTER THAT, NEARLY THE ENTIRE PLANE GOT UP TO FIND AND MAKE SURE ALL THE DEVICES WERE TURNED OFF. THE NOISES THEN STOPPED. NO MAKE/MODEL INFO WAS GATHERED BECAUSE: THE FLT ATTENDANTS WERE DOING THEIR SVC, WE WERE STILL CLBING, AND WE ASSUMED NO ONE WAS GOING TO ADMIT GUILT FOR FEAR OF PROSECUTING ACTION. RECOMMENDATION: 1 WOULD HIGHLY ENCOURAGE MANY MORE IN-DEPTH STUDIES TO BE PERFORMED PRIOR TO ALLOWING CELL PHONES AND OTHER COMS DEVICES TO BE USED ON BOARD ACFT INFLT. Synopsis FLT CREW OF CRJ-700 RPTS THAT AURAL INTERFERENCE IN VHF COMS CEASED WHEN PAX WERE ASKED TO ENSURE ALL FORMS OF 2-WAY COMS WERE TURNED OFF.
Time / Day Date : 200502 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : BOS.Airport State Reference : MA Environment Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZBW.ARTCC Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B767-300 and 300 ER Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass A : ZBW.A Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Attendant : Flight Attendant (On Duty) Qualification.Flight Attendant : Current Qualification.FIight Attendant : 8 Experience. Flight Attendant. Total : 29 Experience. Flight Attendant.Airline Total Experience. Flight Attendant. Type : 80 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : Analyst Callback : Completed Person : 2 Reference : 3 Location Of Person.Aircraft Function. Other Person : 3 Reference : 3 Location Of Person.Aircraft Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Events 649113
Anomaly.FIight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Passenger Electronic Device Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Smoke / Fire / Fumes / Odor Detector. Person : Flight Crew Result.FIight Crew : Diverted Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 PAX WAS FOUND TO BE USING 2 COMPUTERS OFF 1 ACFT PWR PORT. HE SAID HE BOUGHT THE 'SPLIITER' AT XYZ RETAILER. SMOKE IN CABIN, RECURRING BURNING SMELL, DEVICE HOT TO TOUCH AND SMELLING. CALLBACK CONVERSATION WITH RPTR REVEALED THE FOLLOWING INFO: THE FUMES WERE THROUGHOUT THE CABIN BEFORE THE CAUSE WAS DISCOVERED. THE DEVICE WAS CONFISCATED AND THE PWR TO THE PWR PORT SYS DISCONNECTED. AFTER A REASONABLE TIME THE FUMES CONTINUED SO DIVERSION WAS MADE BECAUSE OF CONCERN FOR POSSIBLE DAMAGE TO THE ACFT SYS. Synopsis A 8767 LANDS SHORT OF DEST DUE TO SMOKE AND FUMES CAUSED BY OVERHEATING OF A PAX PROVIDED PWR PORT SPLITTER USED TO OPERATE 2 PERSONAL COMPUTERS.
