ASRS Database Report Set Pilot / Controller Communications Report Set Description. ......................A sampling of reports which highlight issues involving communications between pilots and controllers. Update Number.. .....32.0 Date of Update ............................. ..November 30, 2017 Number of Records in Report Set............... Number ofNew Records in Report Set ...............50 Type of Records in Report Set.. .........For each update, new records received at ASRS will displace a like number of the oldest records in the Report Set, with the objective of providing the fifty most recent relevant ASRS Database records. Records within this Report Set have been screened to assure then- relevance to the topic.
National Aeronautics and Space Administration Ames Research Center Moffett Field, CA 94035-1000 TH: 262-7 MEMORANDUM FOR: Recipients of Aviation Safety Reporting System Data SUBJECT: Data Derived from ASRS Reports The attached material is furnished pursuant to a request for data from the NASA Aviation Safety Reporting System (ASRS). Recipients of this material are reminded when evaluating these data of the following points. ASRS reports are submitted voluntarily. The existence in the ASRS database of reports concerning a specific topic cannot, therefore, be used to infer the prevalence of that problem within the National Airspace System. Information contained in reports submitted to ASRS may be amplified by further contact with the individual who submitted them, but the information provided by the reporter is not investigated further. Such information represents the perspective of the specific individual who is describing their experience and perception of a safety related event. After preliminary processing, all ASRS reports are de-identified and the identity of the individual who submitted the report is permanently eliminated. All ASRS report processing systems are designed to protect identifying information submitted by reporters; including names, company affiliations, and specific times of incident occurrence. After a report has been de-identified, any verification of information submitted to ASRS would be limited. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration and its ASRS current contractor, Booz Allen Hamilton, specifically disclaim any responsibility for any interpretation which may be made by others of any material or data furnished by NASA in response to queries of the ASRS database and related materials. Linda J. Connell, Director NASA Aviation Safety Reporting System
CAVEAT REGARDING USE OF ASRS DATA Certain caveats apply to the use of ASRS data. All ASRS reports are voluntarily submitted, and thus cannot be considered a measured random sample of the full population of like events. For example, we receive several thousand altitude deviation reports each year. This number may comprise over half of all the altitude deviations that occur, or it may be just a small fraction of total occurrences. Moreover, not all pilots, controllers, mechanics, flight attendants, dispatchers or other participants in the aviation system are equally aware of the ASRS or may be equally willing to report. Thus, the data can reflect reporting biases. These biases, which are not fully known or measurable, may influence ASRS information. A safety problem such as near midair collisions (NMACs) may appear to be more highly concentrated in area "A" than area "B" simply because the airmen who operate in area "A" are more aware of the ASRS program and more inclined to report should an NMAC occur. Any type of subjective, voluntary reporting will have these limitations related to quantitative statistical analysis. One thing that can be Imown from ASRS data is that the number of reports received concerning specific event types represents the lower measure of the true number of such events that are occurring. For example, if ASRS receives 881 reports of track deviations in 2010 (this number is purely hypothetical), then it can be known with some certainty that at least 881 such events have occurred in 2010. With these statistical limitations m mind, we believe that the real power of ASRS data is the qualitative information contained in report narratives. The pilots, controllers, and others who report tell us about aviation safety incidents and situations in detail — explaining what happened, and more importantly, why it happened. Using report narratives effectively requires an extra measure of study, but the knowledge derived is well worth the added effort.
Report Synopses
ACN:1481663 (lof50) Synopsis Air carrier flight crew reported programming the wrong fix into the FMS due to similarly pronounced fixes YELLA and YELAH which are only 56 NM apart. ACN: 1481209 (20f50) Synopsis EMB-505 flight crew reported using Captain's authority to circumnavigate an area of thunderstorms. ACN:1478232 (30f50) Synopsis Air carrier flight crew reported misunderstanding Ramp Control's taxi instructions and taxied on an active taxiway without clearance from Ground Control. ACN:1476596 (40f50) Synopsis Air Carrier flight crew reported a deviation for weather in oceanic airspace, after deviating a message was received from ATC that denied the deviation. ACN: 1473273 (50f50) Synopsis The flight crew of a 737 reported the need to comply with an RA to avoid an airborne conflict that ATC was seemingly unaware of. ACN•. 1472677 (60f50) Synopsis 3737 flight crew reported being cleared direct to KOTAA, but mistakenly entered KOITA which is 221 NM southwest. ACN•. 1471455 (70f50) Synopsis CRJ-200 flight crew reported that during descent they misunderstood instructions from ATC. ACN: 1471431 (80f50) Synopsis
3777 flight crew reported descending to altitude assigned by ATC, which was an error and below the Minimum Vectoring Altitude. ATC Caught the error and issued crew a higher altitude. ACN•. 1471176 (90f50) Synopsis Business jet flight crew and SCT Departure Controller reported confusion with instructions that resulted in a NMAC. ACN: 1471084 (100f50) Synopsis Hawker 4000 flight crew reported that while descending on a clearance including an altitude and speed, being instructed by the next controller to comply at GREGS. The crew learned later that the controller only wanted the speed. ACN•. 1468545 (11 of50) Synopsis 3737 flight crew reported that while on the CREDE3 RNAV Arrival into DEN, ATC changed the clearance from the chart-depicted crossing at POWDR between FL220 and 17000 to at 17000 ft. The crew was unable to make that crossing restriction and the STAR's speed restrictions and were vectored off arrival as a result. ACN: 1465460 (120f50) Synopsis Air carrier flight crew reported almost colliding with another aircraft while taxiing. ACN: 1465181 (130f50) Synopsis CL60 flight crew reported receiving a low altitude alert from the GPWS and ATC on approach to TEB due to a clearance miscommunication. ACN: 1464478 (140f50) Synopsis Three skydive pilots flying separate C182s reported two of them had a conflict with a 8737 while descending. ACN: 1463906 (150f50) Synopsis
CRJ-700 flight crew reported being issued a taxi clearance from a gate which required a tight turn and full tiller. In the turn, jet blast was directed at a Twin Commander, which spun that aircraft around. ACN•. 1462771 (160f50) Synopsis SCT Controller and flight crew reported missing a crossing restriction when given a climb via clearance. ACN: 1462122 (170f50) Synopsis Helicopter pilot and two controllers reported a runway incursion at VNY airport. Communication issues were cited as contributing factors. ACN: 1461355(180f50) Synopsis Gulfstream IV flight crew reported they programmed their FMS with a different route than cleared. After departure, ATC detected the errant track and provided route clarification. ACN: 1459457 (190f50) Synopsis Flight crew of large turbojet aircraft reported an issue with an ATC clearance to meet an altitude restriction. ACN: 1459026 Synopsis SoCal TRACON Controllers reported the "Perfect Storm" when similar sounding callsigns resulted in a loss of separation on final. ACN•. 1458556 (21 of50) Synopsis 3747 flight crew reported being issued a hold without EFC time due to weather. ACN: 1458378 Synopsis A Boeing 737 crew reported that during climb, they checked in with departure and mistakenly stated they were climbing to one-two thousand feet. ACN: 1458061 (23 of50)
Synopsis New York Center Controllers reported that aircraft were deviating due to weather and the sector was not controlled with aircraft turning into each other. ACN: 1457523 (240f50) Synopsis Air carrier flight crew reported a ground conflict at EHAM after all three pilots misunderstood the Ground Controller's hold short instructions because of rapid, accented speech. ACN•. 1456369 (250f50) Synopsis 3757 flight crew reported that Air Traffic Controllers are instructing 757's to perform RNAV procedures when basic 757s are not capable. ACN: 1455862 (260f50) Synopsis Air carrier flight crew reported taking a clearance intended for a different aircraft with a similar sounding call sign. ACN: 1455206 (270f50) Synopsis 8737 flight crew reported a low altitude alert on approach to OAK due to miscommunication on the cleared altitude. ACN: 1455164 (28 of50) Synopsis A Tower Controller and two associated pilots reported a ground conflict and runway incursion due to an aircraft that taxied over the hold bars due to similar callsigns. ACN: 1454647 Synopsis Center Controllers reported the wrong aircraft took a frequency change and descent clearance due to similar sounding call signs. ACN: 1453976 (300f50) Synopsis
A BE9L flight crew reported the aircraft's GTN750 autonomously changed frequency after beginning a visual approach turn to base. The aircraft overshot final then entered IMC, but they could not communicate with Approach Control. ACN•. 1451902 (31 of50) Synopsis Air carrier flight crew reported receiving an amended approach clearance with nonstandard confusing phraseology. ACN: 1450732 (320f50) Synopsis Air carrier flight crew reported confusion due to improper instructions about holding on the EIDW OLAPO IL Arrival approaching the KERAV. ACN: 1449208 (330f50) Synopsis Air carrier Captain reported a conflict with another aircraft while taxiing at DFW. ACN•. 1448461 (340f50) Synopsis PA28 pilot and safety pilot reported an airborne conflict and wake turbulence encounter when ATC cleared a Falcon jet for approach to the same runway they were flying a practice ILS to. ACN: 1447809 (350f50) Synopsis Turboprop flight crew reported an issue with conflicting traffic during arrival to MYF. ACN: 1447486 (360f50) Synopsis Lake Front Tower Controllers reported that an aircraft cut off the sequenced first arrival, causing the first aircraft to go around. ACN: 1447207 (370f50) Synopsis 8737 flight crew reported they thought a clearance from the Tower to depart was for them, but was actually a clearance for an aircraft entering from the other side. The error was not detected prior to crossing the hold line.
ACN:1444830 (38 of50) Synopsis An EMB-500 flight crew reported their Crew Alerting System (CAS) alerted GPS OUTAGE at which time the autopilot reverted to PITCH and ROLL. The crew misunderstood ATC and mistakenly began a descent to FL350 while dealing with the autopilot but TCAS alerted RA at which point they returned to FL350. Shortly thereafter, GPS returned to normal. ACN: 1444284 (390f50) Synopsis Flight crew reported descending below cleared altitude on approach to LWB when erroneously believed were cleared for a visual approach. ACN: 1444102 (400f50) Synopsis Air carrier flight crew reported transitioning from the MSY RYTHM Arrival to the Runway 20 RNAV at 2,000 feet and were notified reentering Class B . The crew was not aware the aircraft was below Class B at 210 knots in IMC. ACN: 1443029 (41 of50) Synopsis B737 flight crew reported taking off with a tailwind out of limits after having been given the latest winds by the Tower. ACN: 1442525 (420f50) Synopsis B737 flight crew reported being cleared to climb via the ORCKAI except maintain 15,000 feet. Level at 15,000 feet, the next Controller issued a climb via SID clearance which confused the crew and they remained at 15,000 feet while ATC intended them to climb to the SID top altitude. ACN: 1441646 (43 of50) Synopsis Turbojet flight crew reported encountering communications difficulties with Center while approaching a mountainous terrain airport. ACN: 1441054 (440f50) Synopsis Air Carrier flight crew reported receiving an RA for nearby traffic while ATC was handling an emergency at their destination.
ACN:1438369 (450f50) Synopsis 3737 flight crew reported climbing in response to an RA on approach to MDW. Crew cited frequency congestion and possible ATC Controller training as contributing factor. ACN: 1437486 (460f50) Synopsis Air carrier flight crew and SFO Controller reported an attempted takeoff without clearance. The Controller canceled the takeoff clearance due to traffic landing on an intersecting runway. ACN: 1437479 (470f50) Synopsis Air carrier flight crew reported conflicting, confusing and combative taxi instructions from ORD ground controller. ACN: 1436400 (480f50) Synopsis Los Angeles Center Controller reported an aircraft did not make the crossing restrictions after being cleared to descend via because of an ongoing aircraft type computer problem. ACN:1435478 (49 of50) Synopsis MDW Tower and C90 TRACON Controller reported that an aircraft departed MDW and was instructed to turn and contact Departure. Aircraft did not turn and was not on either frequency. ACN:1434485 (500f50) Synopsis PSP Local Instructor and Developmental both reported of an unsafe situation where SCT TRACON did not follow correct procedures which led to a loss of separation between two aircraft.
Report Narratives
Time / Day Date : 201709 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZLA.ARTCC State Reference : CA Altitude.MSL.SingIe Value : 24000 Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZLA Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Large Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Climb Route In Use : Direct Route In Use.SID : OSHNN8 Airspace.Class A : ZLA Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1481663 Confusion Human Factors : : Situational Awareness Human Factors Troubleshooting Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Communication Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft
Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1481664 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Situational Awareness Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Track / Heading : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.Flight Crew : Returned To Clearance Result.FIight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Chart Or Publication Primary Problem : Airspace Structure Narrative: 1 While climbing out on the OSHNN8.NNAVY departure Los Angeles Center gave us a reroute for a new clearance approximately SNM prior to PLAYY for a new clearance past PLAYY. We were cleared to climb from FL230 to FL240 and the reroute was after PLAYY direct YELAH then EED then flight planned route. The Captain read back the clearance as the Pilot monitoring and I quickly changed the altitude to FL240 confirming with him and input the first fix into the FMS. I entered YELLA and the FMS showed a 098 course for 58 miles which seemed to make sense. I confirmed the entry with the Captain and inserted the fix and the aircraft immediately started a turn. I then inserted EED into the FMS to clean up the flight plan and confirmed with the Captain that everything looked good. A few minutes later Center issued us a heading turn to 030 and then told us of a possible pilot deviation. The Captain told LA center that we had gone exactly where they had sent us and the controller said it was possible that we had gone to the incorrect YELAH. We then continued on the flight without any further incident. After the flight, the Captain called Center and they informed him that although we deviated from their desired course, there were no traffic conflicts or issues that resulted. This event occurred in my opinion due to two things. The first reason was that Center issued us a new clearance too close to the changed fix and in our rush to comply we did not take the time to confirm the correct spelling of one of the new fixes were were assigned that was not on our original flight plan. The second reason is that there are 2
fixes within 50 nautical miles of each that are pronounced the same, but spelled differently. From the fix PLAYY where we were on the OSHNN8 departure, YELAH is a 038 course for 52 nautical miles and YELLA is a 098 course for 58 nautical miles. I suggest that we work with ATC to eliminate one of the YELLA or YELAH fixes to prevent a mistake like OUrS from happening again. I would also suggest that we immediately contact Center and have them inform controllers to be very careful when providing new clearances to aircrew that use either of these two fixes. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis Air carrier flight crew reported programming the wrong fix into the FMS due to similarly pronounced fixes YELLA and YELAH which are only 56 NM apart.
Time / Day Date : 201709 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZZZ.ARTCC State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 37000 Environment Flight Conditions : Mixed Weather Elements / Visibility : Thunderstorm Weather Elements / Visibility : Turbulence Weather Elements / Visibility.VisibiIity : 10 Light : Daylight Ceiling.Single Value : 37000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : EMB-505 / Phenom 300 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Training Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Descent Route In Use.STAR : ZZZZZ Airspace.CIass A : ZZZ Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Instructor Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification. Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 13000 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 250 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 850 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1481209 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew
Communication Breakdown.Party2 Analyst Callback : Completed Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal : ATC Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Function.FIight Crew : Trainee Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Private Experience.Flight Crew. Total : 2500 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 100 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 70 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1481177 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Track / Heading : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.FIight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Weather Narrative: 1 Instructor/Mentor Pilot was acting [as] PF. During the descent briefing the PF/IP informed the PIT (Pilot in Training) that the weather over the arrival was deteriorating. XM Weather and Active Weather Radar was painting numerous cells starting to top at FL400. Literally the entire area was bubbling up with convective activity creating a dangerous situation. Descent/Approach briefing completed the THREATS were clearly outlined as Severe Weather both on the arrival and the wind conditions at the field. [While cruising] at FL450 the Controller issued a clearance to descend to FL400. PIT (Pilot in Training) doing the radios advised the Controller to stand by. After conferring with the IP/PF both pilots agreed it was much safer to stay at FL450. PIT reported to [ATC] that we wished to stay at FL450 until we passed the worst of the weather. The Controller DEMANDED a descent. Again the PIT with authorization from the PF/IP advised we were unable to descend. The Controller then assigned us a heading of 210 and demanded a
descent. The PF/IP made the call to begin the descent and try to help the Controller out. We accepted the 210 heading and descend to FL350. We heard the Controller ask for an expeditious descent through FL370. Upon rolling out on the heading of 210 we were closing in on a large cell. We asked the Controller for a 230/240 heading for weather. When we turned to that heading, it was obvious we were going to go through the tops of another cell. Now unable to get on the radio due to numerous aircraft requesting VECTORS FOR WEATHER we turned to a SAFE heading of 260 and at first break in the radio, advised the Controller we now needed a 260 heading for weather. The Controller replied with "You are not cleared for a 260 heading". We again advised "sir, we need the 260 heading for weather!" again the Controller said "you are not cleared on to that heading". This left the crew no option but to [override the Controller] for safety. We immediately took a picture of the weather radar and view out of the window showing the imminent threat. Pilots should keep in mind that an XM Weather image may be 20-30 [minutes] old and that what matters most is the image out of the window and on the weather radar. The atmosphere had clearly reached a boiling point making safe flight very much in doubt. If we had the time we would have squawked 7700 prior to making the turn to 260 but it is always Aviate, Navigate and then Communicate. Didn't have time in a dynamic situation. I stand behind the decisions we took as a crew to have a safe conclusion to our flight. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis EMB-505 flight crew reported using Captain's authority to circumnavigate an area of thunderstorms.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : DTW.Airport State Reference : MI Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Ramp : DTW Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Large Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Taxi Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1478232 Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1478227 Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew
Events Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Taxiway Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : Taxi Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Chart Or Publication Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 DTW was in north flow. After pushback, we contacted Ramp Control for further instructions. We were told to taxi to Spot 5 and contact Ground Control. We taxied west to taxiway K, then south toward what we thought was Spot 5. After receiving taxi instructions to runway 4R, Ground Control notified us that we had taxied onto an active taxiway (K) without a clearance. We thought that the North Ramp consisted of the area leading up to the median separating taxiways K and Y. This event occurred due to lack of attention to detail. The chart for the North Ramp (10- 9D) clearly shows that Spot 5 is located on 'Taxilane' E rather than Taxiway K. Furthermore, Gate notes, as well as text on the Company Departure page indicate the necessity to contact Ground Control prior to push back from those gates, as their proximity leads directly onto an active taxiway. We also noticed airport markings on the ramp area between the North Ramp and the movement area - these markings were difficult to notice from our starting location. I think that it would not be difficult for a crew that is unfamiliar with the DTW North Ramp to make a similar error in the future. An illustration on the North Ramp chart 10-9D of a line demarcating the North Ramp from the movement area would have helped to prevent this occurrence. Likewise, a cautionary note in the Company pages to supplement the current text would be helpful. Narrative: 2 Departing DTW. After pushback was instructed by ramp control to "taxi down to Spot 5 and contact ground...and spot 5 is abeam gate D-18." Ramp control never specified to use taxiway(s) E or K. Spot 5 was not visible from pushback location. Taxied to the closest taxi line after push back which was taxiway K. Stopped abeam D-18 and contacted ground control. Received taxi instructions but was also advised we had taxied onto an active taxiway. Both taxi charts 10-9 & 10-9D DO NOT differentiate where the ramp ends, and where the active taxiway begins. In fact, upon taxi in after landing, ground control advised us to "enter the ramp at XX"....whiIe we were still taxing on taxiway Y. To us, this left the impression that both taxiway(s) E and K are under ramp control. A clear noted boundary between ramp and taxiway K are needed on both the 10-9 and 10-9D pages. Thank you for your attention to this matter. Synopsis
Air carrier flight crew reported misunderstanding Ramp Control's taxi instructions and taxied on an active taxiway without clearance from Ground Control.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : KZAK.ARTCC State Reference : CA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 33000 Environment Flight Conditions : Marginal Weather Elements / Visibility : Turbulence Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : K ZAK Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Widebody Transport Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Cargo / Freight Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Oceanic Airspace.Class A : KZAK Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1476596 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Time Pressure Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1476603
Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Track / Heading : All Types Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Returned To Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Weather Narrative: 1 About 3+26 into flight at FL330, after passing N46E170, we encountered moderate to severe turbulence with associated "pop-up" radar returns beneath the aircraft. We couldn't see as we were at the cloud tops. As Pilot Monitoring, I sent SF Radio [ARINC] a message requesting left deviation for weather; we had radar indications that prevented a right deviation. SF Radio's response wasn't timely enough and we decided to deviate left off of our Strategic Lateral Offset Procedure. We reviewed the Long Range Navigation (LRN) for weather deviations and were aware of parameters and altitude requirements of a deviation off course for weather. Our left deviation kept the aircraft at a safe distance away magenta indications on the radar. SF Radio replied with "unable deviation left due to traffic." By this time we had already deviated left. Upon receiving this message the flying pilot turned right to return on course, while avoiding weather. SF Radio sent another message indicating they showed us off course. We replied that we were back on course. Intent is to communicate why we deviated for weather and that the crew was aware of off track deviation procedures. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis Air Carrier flight crew reported a deviation for weather in oceanic airspace, after deviating a message was received from ATC that denied the deviation.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZZZ.ARTCC State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 16000 Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B737 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Approach Airspace.CIass E : ZZZ Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory Center : ZZZ Make Model Name : Any Unknown or Unlisted Aircraft Manufacturer Airspace.Class E : ZZZ Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1473273 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown. Partyl : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier
Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 366 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 6525 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1473276 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown. Partyl : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Airborne Conflict Detector.Automation : Aircraft TA Detector.Automation : Aircraft RA When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 Level at 16,000 ft just north of ZZZZZ intersection we observed traffic on TCAS below and to the left of our position, climbing at a high rate. ATC never informed us of any traffic in our vicinity. Within seconds, we received a resolution advisory to descend. The Captain immediately started to comply with the TCAS resolution and started a descent until clear of conflict. I, as the Pilot Monitoring, tried to immediately notify ATC of the conflict, but I was unable to for about five to ten seconds due to radio congestion. As soon as possible, I notified Center that we were descending to comply with TCAS resolution. It seemed that ATC was not even aware of the traffic in our vicinity otherwise he may have given us at least an indication that there was another aircraft climbing towards us. Center then asked us what kind of resolution it was and at what altitude we had descended to, to which I replied a descent resolution and 15,000 ft. We were then handed to Approach and continued the visual approach without further incident. Narrative: 2 Fifteen miles north of ZZZZZ on an enroute descent, we received an RA and responded correctly. We were level at 16,000 ft and descended to 15,000 ft feet as commanded. An aircraft below us was rapidly climbing into our altitude so we descended. Center was surprised at finding out we had descended due to an RA. It happened so fast that we never got a caution advisory, just an RA. Synopsis The flight crew of a 737 reported the need to comply with an RA to avoid an airborne conflict that ATC was seemingly unaware of.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZSE.ARTCC State Reference : WA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 17000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZSE Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8737 Next Generation Undifferentiated Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : GPS Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Climb Route In Use.Airway : 354 Route In Use.SID : SUMMA9 Airspace.Class A : ZSE Airspace.CIass E : ZSE Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1472677 Confusion Human Factors : : Human-Machine Interface Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Workload Human Factors Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Communication Person : 2
Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1472690 Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Human-Machine Interface Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Track / Heading : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Returned To Clearance Result.FIight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.FIight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 Airspace Structure Chart Or Publication Procedure Filed SUMMA9 BKE transition, clearance was SUMMA9 354 BKE. We looked and saw they overlaid each other so we left the BKE transition in the box. Approaching SUMMA and passing through transition level and running checklist, ATC gave us direct to KOTAA. Requested spelling and thought we heard KOTTA and inserted that into the box, which displayed within 160 miles of our position but not on 354. We knew something was not correct, we requested spelling again, got it in the box and were turning when ATC gave us a heading on course. Lesson learned: Type in SUMMA9 354 BKE (without BKE transition) so as to have the points in the box. Questions I have: Why does ATC sometimes feel the need to give us a "direct" clearance just a few miles before we are approaching a turn point? Maybe one of those two waypoints (KOTAA & KOTTA) need a name change as they are very similar and near each other. Narrative: 2
[Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis B737 flight crew reported being cleared direct to KOTAA, but mistakenly entered KOTTA which is 221 NM southwest.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 13000 Environment Flight Conditions : IMC Weather Elements / Visibility : Rain Weather Elements / Visibility : Thunderstorm Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Regional Jet 200 ER/LR (CRJ200) Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Descent Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1471455 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1471458 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown
Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown. Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Speed : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 We were descending through 13,000 ft on the arrival when ATC told us to descend to 11,000 ft and slow to 250. We began the descent and slowed to 250. ATC then asked us what our speed was, and we replied with 250 knots. The controller said we were told to descend to 11,000 ft then slow to 250 knots. Both the Captain and I understood the clearance as descend and slow, not descend then slow. I believe the cause of this event was a very high workload due to thunderstorms ahead of us on the arrival, very busy airspace, and possible nonstandard phraseology. We should have questioned the controller, about the descent and slow down. Unfortunately both of us thought we understood the controller's instructions. From this point on we will make sure and ask the controller for clarification if there is any question with ATC instructions. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis CRJ-200 flight crew reported that during descent they misunderstood instructions from ATC.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : DIO.TRACON State Reference : TX Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 3500 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : DIO Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B777 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 3 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Descent Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.CIass B : DFW Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1471431 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : First Officer Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1471740 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC
Person : 3 Reference : 3 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1471739 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Excursion From Assigned Altitude Anomaly Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Returned To Clearance Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 On Downwind for runway 35C flying the BRDJE arrival passing approx 4,000 ft, ATC cleared us to 3,000ft and asked us to expedite the descent. Upon reaching approx 3,150 and on base leg, ATC advised us to maintain 3,500ft stating that this was the Minimum Vectoring Altitude (MVA). We confirmed that we had been cleared to 3,000 ft and the controller acknowledged that clearance had been issued by mistake. We climbed to 3,500 and made the visual approach and landed without incident. All crew were at stations. Narrative: 2 On downwind for ILS 35C/visuaI approach, we were complying with a "expedite descent to 3000" clearance issued by [ATC]. At approximately 3150 feet, controller issued "climb to 3500 feet for MVA" (this occurred as we were midway through base turn). This clearance put us back at the base of the clouds which thinned as we headed north "cleared to intercept the localizer". Shortly thereafter, we called "visual" and landed without incident. Tower issued an altitude (3000 feet) clearance below his MVA in error. He corrected his clearance to 3500 feet. We maintained compliance with both. Will continue to comply with ATC approach clearances in safe conditions. Narrative: 3 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis
3777 flight crew reported descending to altitude assigned by ATC, which was an error and below the Minimum Vectoring Altitude. ATC Caught the error and issued crew a higher altitude.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : SNA.Airport State Reference : US Relative Position. Distance. Nautical Miles : Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 5500 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : 10 Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : SCT Aircraft Operator : Corporate 5 Make Model Name : Small Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Climb Route In Use : Vectors Route In Use.SID : MUSEL 8 Airspace.Class E : SCT Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.TRACON : SCT Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Small Aircraft, Low Wing, I Eng, Fixed Gear Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass E : SCT Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Corporate Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP)
Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 5500 Experience. Flight Crew.Last 90 Days . 137 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 164 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1471176 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Corporate Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 3000 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 150 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 400 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1471206 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Person : 3 Reference : 3 Location Of Person. Facility : SCT.TRACON Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Instructor Function.Air Traffic Control : Departure Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control.Radar : 6 Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1471235 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Communication Breakdown.Party1 : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Conflict : NMAC Anomaly Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Detector.Automation : Air Traffic Control Detector.Automation : Aircraft TA Detector. Person : Flight Crew Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control : 17
Miss Distance.HorizontaI : 100 When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Result.Air Traffic Control : Separated Traffic Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Climbing out of SNA. Handed off to departure. Was given instructions to turn right to heading 240 and climb to 8000 ft by first controller. Another controller immediately after radioed and gave instructions to cancel/disregard instructions. Initial controller then gave same instructions again to turn right to heading 240 and climb maintain 8000 ft. Other controller then gave instructions to turn right to heading 270 and climb, maintain 8000 ft. Response radio calls were made after each instruction from controllers. Amidst these instructions and transfer of controllers, traffic was seen and avoided. Seemed like there was training going on within ATC and confusion of instructions made. Recommend training during low peak traffic times and environment, if training was occurring. Or recommend no transfer of controllers within that traffic environment, if no training was occurring. Narrative: 2 We had just departed SNA on the MUSEL8 and were assigned 5000 ft as initial altitude from clearance. We got switched to SoCal Departure and on the check on were given to maintain 5000 ft. Nearing MUSEL intersection the controller started to assign a heading, but was cut off by a supervisor or trainer who told us to disregard. A couple seconds later, the controller gave us the instructions to turn right heading 240 and climb to 8000 ft. I read back turn right heading 240, climb 8000 ft. As soon as the pilot flying started to make the turn we got a TA from our TCAS 1 system, I looked outside and saw a Piper very close to us and observed the TA to be at our altitude. I saw the airplane, immediately took control of the airplane and pulled up to climb at a faster rate. I would estimate our distance at around 100-200 ft separation. The supervisor controller then came on and asked what altitude we were at to which I responded we had been given the turn and climb. There was definitely confusion between the controller being trained or supervised and the trainer or supervisor. Another issue was that the [Piper] was on frequency and in the departure corridor of SNA very close to the altitude of departures from the airport. Directly after this we were given a frequency change and continued without issue. Narrative: 3 Training in progress and I was the trainer. At the time we were focusing on different techniques with separating VFR traffic from departures off of SNA. My trainee had a plan that would have worked, but I disregarded his transmission because I felt it would have created undo delay to aircraft. I then proceeded to instruct her on my plan and for her to execute it, which I thought I communicated a turn towards the VFR aircraft without a climb and to just issue traffic until they passed and climbing could continue. He misunderstood me and still climbed the IFR through the VFR aircraft altitude. During the transmission I was engaged in explanation of the scenario and my thoughts without full
comprehending the clearance he gave. I think I heard what I wanted to hear instead of actually listening. No facility recommendations, just to understand with myself when to engage in verbal discussion and when not to at the sector. Also, to better understand where the trainee is at in his development and not allow the training team to be put in that scenario again by being more proactive instead of reactive. Synopsis Business jet flight crew and SCT Departure Controller reported confusion with instructions that resulted in a NMAC.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : DAL.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 14000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZFW Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Hawker 4000 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Descent Route In Use.STAR : JFRYE3 Airspace.CIass E : ZFW Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 5500 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 90 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 210 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1471084 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown. Party2 : ATC Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier
Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 6500 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 60 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 1200 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1471108 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Speed : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 While on descent to DAL on the JFRYE3 arrival prior to GREGS ATC cleared us to 14,000 feet. We asked ATC if he needed the speed of 250 knots at GREGS and he said no and assigned 320 knots. We then switched frequencies and checked in with our speed assigned and ATC then said to comply at GREGS. This is where the mix-up occurred as we descended to comply with published speed and altitude at GREGS 250 knots and 10,000 feet. After talking to ATC on the phone the controller only wanted us to comply with the speed restriction not altitude. We assumed to comply with both speed and altitude as published. We should have asked for clarification and controller should have been more specific with the clearance. Narrative: 2 On descent into the DAL on the JFRYE 3 RNAV Arrival and had just passed NUKLZ intersection on our way to GREGS intersection with a clearance of descend and maintain 14,000 feet and 320 knots or greater. We received an ATC handoff on our descent to 14,000 feet. I checked on with the new controller of our altitude, altitude assigned of 14,000 feet and speed assigned. The controller came back and said to "comply at GREGS". This is where the problem occurred. We assumed that we are now complying with the restrictions at GREGS intersection of At 250 KTS/At 10,000 feet. It was only after the event that we learned that the controller meant to comply with the speed at GREGS and NOT the Altitude. We assumed the clearance was to comply with the depicted altitude and speed at GREGS intersection. We should have asked for clarity instead of assuming. The controller should have been more specific with the instructions instead of assuming we understood that he meant to comply with the speed only.
Assumption on both parties led to this learning experience for both crew and controller. No TCAS TA or RA was encountered with this event. Synopsis Hawker 4000 flight crew reported that while descending on a clearance including an altitude and speed, being instructed by the next controller to comply at GREGS. The crew learned later that the controller only wanted the speed.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : DEN Airport State Reference : CO Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 20500 Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZDV Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B737 Next Generation Undifferentiated Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Nav In Use : GPS Flight Phase : Descent Route In Use.STAR : CREDE3 Airspace.CIass A : ZDV Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 394 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1468545 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP)
Experience. Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 215 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 18000 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1468568 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Crossing Restriction Not Met Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Chart Or Publication Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 We were descending on the CREDE3 RNAV ARRIVAL into Denver. Per the ATIS received, we had loaded the Runway 16R transition into the FMS, briefed the arrival accordingly, and verified all crossing and speed restrictions were in the FMS. The aircraft was on the idle descent path, on speed at 280 knots, with VNAV engaged as we descended through approximately FL230. The next restriction on the arrival that we had to satisfy was to cross the POWDR waypoint between FL220 and 17,000 ft. The aircraft was on path, and was going to cross POWDR at about 20,500 ft. Denver Center then issued us a clearance to cross POWDR waypoint at 17,000 ft. This was entered into the FMC, and as expected, we were nearly 4000 ft above the new required descent path. In addition, the arrival dictates 280 knots in the descent, and to cross POWDR at 250 knots. Full speed brakes had a limited impact on our descent, and it was very obvious we had zero chance of making this crossing. We told ATC that we would be unable to make POWDR at 17,000 ft. The Controller responded "Why not?" The Controller continued to sound somewhat exasperated (and less than professional) as he implied we had somehow messed up. Frequency congestion then followed which prevented us from explaining that we were set up to satisfy all crossings on the arrival per the chart. ATC did not give us altitude or airspeed relief, and instead vectored us off course prior to crossing POWDR. No restrictions were actually missed. The Controller's attitude and implication that we had somehow been at fault led us to submit this report. It should be noted that nowhere on the arrival chart does it mention that we should expect to cross POWDR at the very bottom of a 5000 ft block of altitude. Also, I have never received a clearance like this going into Denver, and the Captain did not anticipate this kind of clearance based on his extensive experience. The arrival procedure needs to reflect crossing restrictions that reflect the expectations of ATC. These things should NOT just be "tribal knowledge". We ended up landing on Runway 7, which I feel was the trigger for ATC to issue the early descent. However, we had no information to prompt us to consider crossing POWDR at the lowest listed crossing altitude. Additionally, Runway 7 was not listed as a runway in use on the ATIS, which was retrieved at about five minutes after the hour. As you know, Denver has a terrible habit of
issuing four to five new ATIS broadcasts each hour, even on fair weather days. These new broadcasts are triggered by the frequent changes in runways in use (specifically adding and deleting runways 7/25 and 8/26) based on very short term traffic needs. While we know to seek additional ATIS updates because of Denver's runway changes, there is a point where we have to focus on flying the aircraft and not on scanning the ATIS every five minutes. There are no runway-specific crossing restrictions or transitions on the arrival. Likewise, ATC gave us no information to expect a lowest-possible crossing restriction. Denver needs to find a better way to communicate expectations to the pilots. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis 3737 flight crew reported that while on the CREDE3 RNAV Arrival into DEN, ATC changed the clearance from the chart-depicted crossing at POWDR between FL220 and 17000 to at 17000 ft. The crew was unable to make that crossing restriction and the STAR's speed restrictions and were vectored off arrival as a result.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ORD.Airport State Reference : IL Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Ground : ORD Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Medium Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Taxi Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.Ground : ORD Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : EMB ERJ 145 ER/LR Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Taxi Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 180 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1465460 Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Human Factors : Distraction : Situational Awareness Human Factors Human Factors : Confusion
Communication Breakdown.PartyI Communication Breakdown. Party2 Communication Breakdown.Party2 Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying : Flight Crew : Flight Crew : ATC Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1465456 Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown. Party2 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.FIight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Other / Unknown Anomaly Conflict : Ground Conflict, Critical Detector. Person : Observer When Detected : Taxi Result.FIight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.Flight Crew : Returned To Clearance Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 After landing on runway 27R we were directed by ATC to wait for a gate at the T-pad east of runway 15 approach end. We waited 45 minutes for the gate to open and then were cleared via Taxiways T - H - J - JI- B. we were told that at B - AIO there would be [an aircraft] exiting the Ramp, if the aircraft was still there, we could 'double back' to make our gate. We were looking at the distance and both called out the [aircraft exiting the ramp] which we determined would be out and not a factor. As we were looking for the aircraft ATC pointed out to us and passing the B-A7 intersection (south towards AIO) an E145 was quickly approaching from the left, I saw 'something' in my peripheral vision and when I turned to look, the Captain in the jump seat that day was already tapping the PF on the shoulder alerting him of the approaching aircraft. The PF immediately stepped on the brakes as the E145 overtook us on B -and to our opinion was that the E145 never even noticed us traveling south and cleared ahead Of them. I believe this was a close call due to the speed at which the E145 was moving, they would
not have had the opportunity to stop. Our speed allowed for an uneventful, albeit heart pounding, stop. I am doubtful any passengers sensed anything nor the two FAs. Aircraft merging into B from A5-A7 seem to pose a danger for aircraft on taxiway B. We briefed the Hot Spots and in my notes I further detailed them for my attention. This point on B however, will get special consideration from me in the future. I have issues with the 'listen and do' policy at ORD (if it is an official policy?), how do they know that everyone has understood their clearances as intended by ATC? The system there seems to be relying heavily on the experience level of the airmen operating there. I can only assume the E145 was following what they understood to be their clearance, though taxiing WAY too fast I might add. We were surely following our clearance. This area needs to be denoted as a Hot Spot. ORD needs to start listening for read-backs. ATC needs to monitor Taxi speeds. Narrative: 2 Upon landing we were issued a wait time for our gate. We sat in the "Tango Pad" off the T taxiway at ORD. When our gate opened up we received taxi instructions from the ground controller (T, J2, J, B, AIO, gate). As we were taxing on the taxiway "J", we began to approach the intersection where taxiway "J" and "B" merge. Just prior to that, the FO and I were referencing the outbound traffic that was parked at our gate previously assigned. I became fixated on that aircraft as we approached the intersection. Just then, our jump seater tapped me on the shoulder and pointed out a converging aircraft on my left hand side. I immediately applied heavy breaking to slow the aircraft and prevent it from striking the other aircraft. It was a E145. We never received any "give way" instructions from the controller. After the aircraft passed in front of us, we continued to the gate uneventfully. The area where taxiway J and B merge should be a spot of awareness or "hot spot" listed on the 10-9 page. Especially during times where "west flow" is in effect. It is in close proximity to the "penalty box", and any aircraft exiting that might come into conflict with aircraft on taxiway J. Also, better CRM should have been used by both crew members. Synopsis Air carrier flight crew reported almost colliding with another aircraft while taxiing.
Time / Day Date : 201507 Local Time Of Day : 0001-0600 Place Locale Reference.Airport : TEB.Airport State Reference : NJ Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 2300 Environment Flight Conditions : IMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility Light : Night Ceiling.SingIe Value : 500 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : N90 Aircraft Operator : Corporate Make Model Name : Challenger CL600 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use : Vectors Route In Use.STAR : LVZ4 Airspace.Class B : NYC Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Corporate Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 4400 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 120 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 340 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1465181 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft
Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Corporate Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification. Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (AT P) Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 129 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 483 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1465211 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown. Partyl : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Overshoot Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Detector.Automation : Aircraft Terrain Warning Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.FIight Crew : Returned To Clearance Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 On the LVZ4 arrival at, we were assigned a heading and altitude of 2000 after passing MUGZY waypoint. Descending through 3000 and approaching 2300 we received a low attitude alert, "caution terrain", from the GPWS. New York approach queried us seconds before the altitude alert saying "Aircraft X maintain 3000". The autopilot was disconnected, power was added, and a climb to 3000 was accomplished. We told New York approach that we were last assigned, and read back, 2000. We acknowledged the 3000 with a read back, the autopilot was re-engaged, and no further action was taken. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis CL60 flight crew reported receiving a low altitude alert from the GPWS and ATC on approach to TEB due to a clearance miscommunication.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 6000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : FBO 10 Make Model Name : Skylane 182/RG Turbo Skylane/RG Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Skydiving Flight Phase : Descent Route In Use : Direct Airspace.CIass E : ZZZ Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : FBO Make Model Name : Skylane 182/RG Turbo Skylane/RG Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Skydiving Flight Phase : Descent Airspace.CIass E : ZZZ Aircraft : 3 Reference : Z ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B737 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Descent Airspace.CIass E : ZZZ
Aircraft : 4 Reference : A ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : FBO Make Model Name : Skylane 182/RG Turbo Skylane/RG Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Skydiving Flight Phase : Climb Airspace.Class E : ZZZ Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : FBO Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial Qualification. Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 915 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 90 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 200 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1464478 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : Y Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : FBO Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial Qualification.FIight Crew : Flight Instructor ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1464516 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Person : 3 Reference : 3 Location Of Person.Aircraft : A Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : FBO Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.FIight Crew : Flight Instructor ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1466172
Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly Conflict : Airborne Conflict Detector.Automation : Aircraft RA Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.HorizontaI : 4000 Miss Distance.VerticaI : 500 When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 I was flying a jump aircraft carrying skydivers for my company. After I dropped off my load over the drop zone at the airport and was in my descent back down to the airport, I had a near miss with a Boeing 737. He was off my left, headed towards me, and I immediately banked to the right to avoid him. We both saw each other and the 8737 pilot called out the traffic to approach and said that it gave him an RA. Less than a minute later he got another RA from another one of our company aircraft. They both saw each other too at the last second. Better separation should have been provided by ATC. But at the end of the day everyone saw and avoided each other albeit the close call. Narrative: 2 A Boeing 737 reported two Resolution Alert (RA) on two "high-wing aircraft", each RA was reported within 15 seconds of each other. My operation consist of climbing to 8,000 feet MSL and descending back to the airport for continuous skydiving operation with multiple "jump aircraft". My climbs, "jump runs", and descents are consistent throughout the day as long as the surface and aloft winds are consistent for a safe free fall and drift/glide for the parachutists. My jump run was 320 degree (magnetic course) and first parachutists out by I NM from the drop zone. After I've called my one minute warning with Approach and my parachutist deplaned, I started my descent at about 2,000 feet per minute to the north. Approach was very busy and I could not announce that my parachutist deplaned. Moments later, the 3737 reported a "high-wing" aircraft on their port side that caused a RA. A few seconds later, the 8737 reported a second RA, "high-wing aircraft", above them. When the B737 reported the first RA, I was trying to look for them believing it was for me; it was for company traffic. I heard a buzzing noise over the frequency, similar to a "blocked" transmission and could not make out the transmission. I looked over to my 4 0'clock and I saw the 3737, about I NM, same altitude on an eastbound course. At that time, the B737 report their second RA. After the report, approach said to me that he told me to stop my descent. I responded back that I did not received the transmission. When I spotted the B737, there was no further actions to be taken on my part. The traffic was not a factor anymore as we were heading on different direction and different altitudes.
Approach on this specific frequency is a very busy frequency especially on weekends and during VMC. This sector covers Class C airspace, north and south practice area of the Class C, and sometimes a single controller handles two separate frequencies. ZZZ is known to have frequent skydiving operation throughout the week and it's very congested with multiple specialty flying operations; gliders, banner towing, student pilot training, practice instrument approaches and skydiving. A parachute symbol is depicted on the Sectional and Terminal Area Chart and as well there is a FDC NOT AM. I have witnessed in the past, air carriers and other jet traffic over flying and/or in the vicinity of ZZZ during skydiving operations. With the skydiving operation, flight pattern is similar and we try to keep it consistent so it's predictable for planning purposes for the controllers. We climb to the south and descent to the north of ZZZ, trying to keep our pattern away from Class C. For our next flights, its lesson learned that we need to keep an extra vigilance and situational awareness to maintain a safe flight. Narrative: 3 While performing parachute jumping operations, one minute or so prior to the release of my skydivers over ZZZ, I heard two back to back resolution alerts reported by a B737. These resolution alerts presumably involved the two aircraft ahead of mine which were already on their descent while the B737 was on approach to a Class C airport. I was still on the climb well to the south and my aircraft was not a factor on the situation; either way I was very close in proximity to the three aircraft involved and decided to report it. One of the aircraft ahead missed a call to stop their descent. A few moments later he came on frequency and complied with ATC instructions and apologized for the situation. All flights ended without incident thereafter. Pointing the traffic a little earlier (especially passenger jet traffic) and listening/complying to instructions could have averted the situation, keeping everyone safe and at the proper separation. Synopsis Three skydive pilots flying separate C182s reported two of them had a conflict with a B737 while descending.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Ground : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Regional Jet 700 ER/LR (CRJ700) Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Taxi Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.Ground : ZZZ Make Model Name : Rockwell Aero Commander Twin Turboprop Undifferentiated or Other Model Flight Phase : Taxi Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accesslon Number : 1463906 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Situational Awareness Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Person : 2
Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1464168 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Situational Awareness Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Other / Unknown Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : Taxi Result.FIight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 We started an engine on the ramp prior to taxi. A Twin Commander was taxiing on the taxiway behind us and had not yet passed behind us. The taxiway was in very close proximity to our parking location on the ramp. The captain observed the Twin Commander over his left shoulder and the aircraft appeared to be stopped or moving very slowly. I did not observe the Twin Commander then or later. I called Ground for a taxi clearance. Ground cleared us to make a right turn and taxi to the runway parallel to this taxiway, which would have been in the direction of travel opposite that of the Twin Commander. We started the turn and after perhaps 30 degrees of turn Ground called again and told us to instead make a left turn and "Sorry about that". We made the left turn and started to taxi along the taxiway toward the departure runway. The pilot of the Twin Commander transmitted "Thanks a lot, (unintelligible)". I responded "Thank you" or something similar. He then transmitted "Thanks a lot, you spun me all the way around, that why I asked for idle power". I did not respond. There was no response from Ground. The Twin Commander then asked Ground for their phone number and it was supplied. We stopped short of the runway to await our flow time. The captain then called Ground and asked him "Did we pivot that Twin Commander?" and Ground responded "That seems to be the consensus". The flight was then completed uneventfully. We read back and executed the turn out instructions exactly as and when they were issued, including the reversal in the direction of turn. We were unable to see behind us and could not see the Twin Commander. We do not know if the Twin Commander was in the position expected by Ground or not. We did not hear any previous mention of idle thrust, though the radio transmissions from the Twin Commander to Ground were not very readable and we might have missed one. The thrust used was low, not much above ground idle - we were at moderate weight (approximately 67,000 LBS), the ramp was
level and the turn was slow. It appears that the Ground controller might have been attempting to turn us left to point our engine exhaust away from directly across the taxiway for the Twin Commander to pass by, but in erroneously initially turning us to the right instead of left actually made the geometry of our engine exhaust with respect to the Twin Commander worse, causing the Twin Commander to encounter our jet blast. Narrative: 2 This event may have been avoided if the controller would have made his plan clear to us or if we or the pilot in the other airplane would have asked some questions about that plan. Synopsis CRJ-700 flight crew reported being issued a taxi clearance from a gate which required a tight turn and full tiller. In the turn, jet blast was directed at a Twin Commander, which spun that aircraft around.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : SCT.TRACON State Reference : CA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 7900 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : SCT Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Large Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Climb Route In Use.SID : RAJEEI Airspace.Class E : SCT Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.TRACON : SCT Make Model Name : Any Unknown or Unlisted Aircraft Manufacturer Flight Plan : IFR Flight Phase : Descent Route In Use.STAR : DSNEEI Airspace.CIass E : SCT Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Facility : SCT.TRACON Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Departure Function.Air Traffic Control : Approach Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control.Time Certified In Pos 1 (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1462771 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Distraction Communication Breakdown. Partyl : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck
Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 306 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 500 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1463383 Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Person : 3 Reference : 3 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Function.FIight Crew : Captain Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (AT P) Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 120 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 22000 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1463388 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Crossing Restriction Not Met Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 I was working HMTR and was somewhat busy and it was somewhat complex. I had three air carriers all descending on the DSNEE arrival and I had just worked out a sequence. There were some outlying thunderstorms around the area, but I don't think they were too much of a factor. There might have been one or two VFR aircraft that were enroute and a couple of skydiving aircraft in the sector. Aircraft X departed ONT on the RAJEEI departure and I took the handoff from RALR where the pilot climbs to 7,000 to stay under the DSNEE arrivals which descend to 8,000. When Aircraft X checked in I saw the conflict and reluctantly climbed Aircraft X via the departure except to maintain 14,000. I say
reluctantly because I just don't like the climb vs the descend via in this case because it's setting the pilot up for failure, exactly what happened here. After issuing the clearance to climb via, I listened for the read back. I went and exchanged traffic to both aircraft (and included a Gulfstream that was behind Aircraft Y). I intently watched because it's such a hot spot with this arrival vs departure. I think I was in the middle of calling traffic to the Gulfstream when I noticed Aircraft X climbing. I saw 7,100, 7,300 and in mid transmission issued a traffic alert and an immediate descent clearance. I believe I was blocked once or twice...maybe even three times so I restated my traffic alert and descent clearance. I heard someone say the word "TCAS," but I don't know if someone got a TCAS RA or if someone was just trying to say they saw someone on their TCAS. I even want to say Aircraft X had Aircraft Y in sight. Once Aircraft X descended back to 7,000 and cleared the other traffic I used an unrestricted climb to 14,000. I notified my Front Line Manager (FLM) of the situation and subsequently issued the Brasher Warning to Aircraft X. To me this is an Optimization of Airspace and Procedures in the Metroplex (OAPM) issue. We're setting them up for failure. The crossing restriction at RAJEE is the most frequently broken crossing restriction of all the descend/climb Via's in the Empire airspace. I don't know why. Even more puzzling is why the Aircraft X pilot busted his altitude restriction when he knew there was traffic. I want to say that I had even told the pilot of the Gulfstream specifically that Aircraft X was going to stay level until crossing his course hoping to clue the Aircraft X pilot should he have climbed through his restriction. It was probably too late at that point. I'd also like to take this opportunity to say the fix RAJEE should be on the Empire map permanently. You can access it via depressing a series of buttons, which is helpful, but personally, I think it should be a fix that's permanently displayed. It's rather important. Especially seeing as how we still have a handful of other fixes that we don't ever or very rarely ever use. To add to that, there's zero doubt in my mind that Aircraft X had passed or was even close to the RAJEE fix (that's not on the map) where he could have climbed. A side note, after talking with the RALR controller about this scenario (several minutes after this all happened), he said that Aircraft X had leveled off at 4,000 initially and had to be told to climb and maintain 7,000. Apparently he didn't check in climbing via the RAJEEI. He might have had the old departure that ONT had used for years plugged into his FMS. Or possibly ONT clearance delivery read him the wrong departure. I checked the flight plan, the data block, everything showed to me he was on the RAJEEI departure. Narrative: 2 Congestion on radio; traffic calls. Climb via except maintain 10,000 feet. A restriction prior was missed. Narrative: 3 [Report narrtive contained no additional information.] Synopsis SCT Controller and flight crew reported missing a crossing restriction when given a climb via clearance.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : VNY.Airport State Reference : CA Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC/ Advisory.Ground : VNY ATC / Advisory. Tower : VNY Aircraft Operator : Corporate Make Model Name : Helicopter Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Utility Flight Phase : Takeoff Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Contracted Service Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Rotorcraft Experience.FIight Crew. Total : 11000 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 55 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 500 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1462122 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Confusion Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Analyst Callback : Attempted Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Facility : VNY.Tower
Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Supervisor / CIC Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1461681 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Training / Qualification Human Factors : Confusion Communication Breakdown. Partyl : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Person : 3 Reference : 3 Location Of Person.FaciIity : VNY.Tower Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Local Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1461685 Human Factors : Training / Qualification Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Runway Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : Taxi Result.Flight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Ambiguous Narrative: 1 We contacted VNY ground to leave the ramp and taxi to 16L for a southwest departure. Ground cleared us to "taxi via Taxiway B and D for 16L cleared for takeoff'. We held short at D and had to ask for frequency change to Tower. Ground advised "contact Tower 119.0". I contacted Tower with request for takeoff 16L for a southwest departure. Tower said "161- cleared for take". I repeated back to Tower what I had heard with no response. We continued out onto 16L. As we began takeoff Tower came on the radio advising "Cessna hold short helicopter is entering runway hold short" then quickly advised "helicopter entering runway the clearance was not for you it was for the Cessna holding short at Taxiway C". Tower then advised us to call the Tower after arrival and shutdown. After departing the airspace copilot had told me that a similar situation had occurred the day prior with a different Captain where ground had cleared them for takeoff on 161-.
This had not been an issue due to no other aircraft involvement in the situation. We contacted tower after we had returned, they took down my information and said I would be contacted if there was any other questions. Later we were departing again from VNY for relocation of the aircraft. We contacted ground again and asked to taxi for departure. Ground came back over the ground frequency and said "taxi to 16L via taxi way B, 16L cleared for takeoff" we repeated back and then proceeded to D and held short. Ground control came back and said "161- cleared for takeoff' we said to ground "confirm 16L cleared for takeoff"? Ground replied with "yes 16L cleared for takeoff'. We then replied "we are still on ground do you want us to change frequencies to tower"? Ground control said "yes switch to tower 119.0". We switched to 119.0 and confirmed that we were still cleared for takeoff. Tower replied with "16L cleared for takeoff make left downwind departure to leave the area". What has caused the most confusion for me and my copilot are. 1. Ground clearance had been saying "16L cleared for takeoff" 2. Copilot had a problem due to tower not keeping a consistent Tower frequency switching from fixed wing frequencies and rotor wing frequencies. 3. The last time I had been to the area we were able to depart direct from our location with a large aircraft and now with large aircraft we are required to ground taxi from the east side of the airport. Narrative: 2 Helicopter mistook a takeoff departure clearance for a Cessna and departed RWY 16 Left. I was working CIC and halfway monitoring the local control positions. The Ground controller taxied Helicopter to RWY 16 Left (intersection Delta) as our procedures dictate. I and the Ground Controller were talking about this helicopter and how big it was and how its roterwash is dangerous to especially small aircraft, etc. etc. I hear the Local controller cross RWY 16 Right with a small Cessna to hold short Of RWY 16 Left. My personal thought was why is the Local intentionally putting a C172 that close to a large Helicopter (approx. 900 FT). I heard the Local controller clear someone for takeoff and "a" readback. There was some overlap with another aircraft on frequency. I'm watching this unfold as the Helicopter takes to Rwy 16 Left at delta and depart. The Local Controller starts complaining about "what is this guy doing". The Ground and Helo Positions reached out to the [helicopter] with no response. This is when it occured to me that the readback was from Helicopter and not the Cessna who had not moved from the hold short position. I shouted to the Local controller that the Helicopter was on his frequency. The Local Controller called [the helicopter] and the pilot responded. The Local Controller then rudely chastised the pilot. A point that I would like to make now is the poor response of the Local Controller to the situation. Generally we assume the helicopters are ready to depart as soon as they start there 300 ft. taxi clearance to the runway. I confirmed after that "YES" the Local saw the helo at the runway. The Local was attempting to depart the Cessna before the Helo on RWY 16 Left. It was slow motion and as Helo started to taxi onto RWY 16 Left it could have been stopped with a minor runway incursion. I saw that Cessna (that was cleared for Takeoff) wasn't moving. Also the local controller complained (off Freq) about this pilot. This situation with better listening and observations could have prevented it. Let the Helicopter Position work the Helicopters. The Helo Position can coordinate the use of the runway if needed.
Keep procedures as simple as possible and normal as to what the pilots would expect. Narrative: 3 I was working LC-I and LC-2 combined. I had just departed a Lear off 16R. A Cherokee was in the pattern for 16L and I had a release for a Gulfstream with a Cessna awaiting pattern work. In order to allow the gulfstream to depart I crossed over a Cessna to hold short of 16L. I departed the gulfstream first and was waiting a few seconds to depart the Cessna off the parallel for him. GC had passed me a half strip for a helicopter repositioning to depart 16L. I cleared [the Cessna] for left closed traffic off 16L and I did not get a readback since another aircraft keyed up. I asked the other aircraft to identify and there was no response. A few seconds later I did not see the Cessna move to depart and saw the helicopter taking the runway for departure since the gulfstream and helicopter were both large aircraft on departure roll I did not try to cancel either Of them but did cancel the Cessna's takeoff clearance. I reached out to see if the helicopter was on frequency and he responded in the affirmative. I told him he had taken the departure clearance of another aircraft and to stand by. I finished making transmissions to the other aircraft in the airspace and then I told the helicopter in more detail what happened to which he admitted full responsibility. I gave him the brasher warning afterwards. In our SOP we are supposed to give LC-I a heads up to when a helicopter wants to depart. This was not accomplished. I did not use full length when departing the Cessna because I received the strip late. If GC-I didn't have such a hard time dealing with the pilot I believe I would have received the strip in time to adhere to the 7110.65 requirement. The CIC was not engaged in the operation and decided to yell at me after the event even though the helicopter admitted it was his mistake. I have asked in previous reports that proper CIC training/refresher is needed at this facility, too many times the operation is being run to the personality of the CIC instead of a standard. The height of the temporary tower creates an angle that is much more difficult to discern the approach end due to the elevation, I may have caught the helicopter quicker if it weren't for this. Also the quality of the binoculars is substandard at this facility to address the poor visibility at the approach end. Synopsis Helicopter pilot and two controllers reported a runway incursion at VNY airport. Communication issues were cited as contributing factors.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : BJC.Airport State Reference : CO Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Corporate Make Model Name : Gulfstream IV / G350 / G450 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Climb Component Aircraft Reference : X Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Corporate Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1461355 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Troubleshooting Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Corporate Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying
Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1461356 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Troubleshooting Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.Deviation - Track / Heading : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Detector. Person : Flight Crew Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Returned To Clearance Result.FIight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.FIight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Upon picking up our clearance at BJC on a quick turn we were given an amended clearance that included the RIKKK 3 Departure. I heard it instead as the BRYCC 3 Departure (Sounding like BRICK) and read it back. I then went to load the FMS. On the SIDS page on the FMS the BRYCC3 Departure comes up on the first page, as well as when you look at DU2, you don't even see the RIKKK3 Departure. Instead it is buried in the list. After I loaded the flight plan I looked at the map of our altered flight plan to ensure continuity, and briefed the BRYCC3. We took off, were given a radar vector as part of our takeoff clearance and departed uneventfully. We were then given direct RIKKK. Confused, we asked "direct BRYCC?" The controller said "direct RIKKK, isn't that on your flight plan?" We then asked for the spelling of the fix, which they didn't have and instead they gave us a heading instead while they sorted it out. Upon looking at the FMS departure list again, we found the RIKKK departure buried deeper in the list. This did not turn into a loss of separation issue, just a lot of confusion on the part of the controllers and flight crew. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis Gulfstream IV flight crew reported they programmed their FMS with a different route than cleared. After departure, ATC detected the errant track and provided route clarification.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : DIO.TRACON State Reference : TX Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 13000 Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : DIO Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Medium Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Descent Route In Use.STAR : SEEVR Airspace.CIass E : DIO Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.TRACON : DIO Make Model Name : Small Aircraft Mission : Skydiving Airspace.CIass E : DIO Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1459457 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft •
Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1459883 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown. Partyl : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Crossing Restriction Not Met Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Returned To Clearance Result.Flight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 During descent into DFW we were cleared direct to SEEVR and told to descend via the SEEVR arrival but to maintain 310 knots. We set in the bottom altitude for the window at SEEVR of 13000 and began our descent planning to cross SEEVR at 14000 to avoid leveling Off. As we neared SEEVR ATC changed our clearance to cross SEEVR at 13000 and comply with the speeds at SEEVR then continue the arrival. We slowed to 270 knots and thought we were set up to cross SEEVR at 13000 but just before turning I noticed we were too high and just as I noticed ATC gave us a heading and an expedited descent to keep us clear of a skydive aircraft in the area. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis Flight crew of large turbojet aircraft reported an issue with an ATC clearance to meet an altitude restriction.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Local Time Of Day : 0001-0600 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : SCT.TRACON State Reference : CA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 10000 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : SCT Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Widebody Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Flight Plan : IFR Flight Phase : Final Approach Route In Use.Other Airspace.CIass B : SCT Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.TRACON : SCT Make Model Name : A321 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Descent Airspace.CIass B : SCT Aircraft : 3 Reference : Z ATC / Advisory.TRACON : SCT Make Model Name : A321 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Airspace.CIass B : SCT Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Facility : SCT.TRACON Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Approach Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1459026 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Distraction
Human Factors : Time Pressure Human Factors : Workload : Situational Awareness Human Factors Breakdown.PartyI : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Communication Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person. Facility : SCT.TRACON Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Approach Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control.Time Certified In Pos 1 (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1460368 Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Human Factors : Fatigue : Situational Awareness Human Factors Human Factors : Distraction Breakdown.Party1 : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Communication Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly.Deviation - Speed : All Types : 22 Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Contributing Factors / Situations : Staffing Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Working Downey Sector, Aircraft X was on final for Runway 25L at 170knots. Aircraft Y was about 8 miles in trail, I instructed Aircraft Y to slow to 210knots, and there was no reply, reached out for Aircraft Y again no answer. I then asked Feeder to try the aircraft again. A plane who I thought was Aircraft Y checks in slowing to 180knots. I next slowed the aircraft to 150 knots, canceled the approach clearance to maintain separation. When it was obviously not going to work I turned the aircraft and instructed them to climb to 4000. At that point the pilot asked if that instruction is for Aircraft Y. I stayed negative, Aircraft Y. I reached out for Aircraft Y again, no reply. I was also using our traffic situation display to look for Aircraft Y. I noticed the plane was in feeder's airspace and switched them to their frequency. Within seconds Aircraft Y was found on Stadium sectors frequency. I then broke the Aircraft X off the approach and Aircraft Y continued with the approach.
After reviewing all of the sectors voice and the replay, this situation was "The Perfect Storm." It was a complex puzzle and once we figured out all the pieces, we took all the steps to establish separation and get every plane safely in position. It always sounds easy, expect a bad read back, you'll catch it. Always try to make yourself aware of similar sounding call signs. Narrative: 2 Aircraft Y (Air Carrier XY) was a 25L arrival from my sector (EAFR) 124.05 to Downey (DNYR) 124.9. I inadvertently switched comm of Aircraft Y (Aircraft XYXZ) to Stadium (STAR) 128.5. This minor and normally inconsequential error snow balled into the perfect storm that highlighted everyone's expectations on hearing what they expected to hear. Myself, the Downey controller, and just as significant the pilots of both Aircraft Y and Aircraft Z. I switched Aircraft Y to the incorrect frequencies 128.5. Normally this error is corrected by the pilot checking in, the STAR controller hearing the aircraft on the wrong frequencies, but seeing the aircraft, since he sees these aircraft, and switching it to the correct frequencies. In this instance the aircraft (Aircraft Y) did not check in, but instead stayed silent for approx. 30 miles! Only when Aircraft Y was 3 miles from the FAF, LIMMA and had already lost separation with Aircraft Z, did he make his initial transmission on 128.5 by asking about his speed. When DNYR hadn't talked to Aircraft Y and he was 25 miles from the airport, he verbally called EAFR across the room to switch Aircraft Y. At the exact same time, Aircraft Z about 40 miles behind Aircraft Y, but not on the frequencies at the same time was asking for clarification of his approach clearance. I heard an Aircraft asking for clarification, and "assumed" that it must have been Aircraft Y concerned seeing the [aircraft] ahead turning final. I re-iterated to Aircraft Y his ILS 25L approach clearance, issued a speed reduction to 200kts, issued traffic a [type aircraft] he was slowing for and behind, and switched his frequencies to DNYR 124.9. I expected to hear Aircraft Y acknowledge. Aircraft Z did acknowledge, because he was expecting to hear his call sign, when in fact the instructions were for Aircraft Y. Aircraft Z checks in to 124.9 DNYR was expecting Aircraft Y, so he responds with instructions for him to slow further, since he IS not seeing him slow from EAFR's 200kt speed reduction. In hind sight, off course Aircraft Y isn't slowing, because he is sitting on 128.5 having not checked in. DNYR cancels Aircraft Y's approach clearance with an altitude paper stop, and a further speed reduction, hoping to salvage the longitudinal spacing. Aircraft Z acknowledges for Aircraft Y on each and every one of the transmissions for Aircraft Y. At approx 5-3 miles from the FAF, the picture gets resolved in a series of further errors. DNYR realizes that Aircraft Y is not responding but Aircraft Z is, and switched Aircraft Z back to EAFR. EAFR is still trying to get a hold of Aircraft Y because he hears the controllers and the supervisor saying they still do not have comms with Aircraft Y. So attempted to have a [air carrier] pilot transmit to Aircraft Y because there was the possibility that due to Aircraft Y's low altitude he could not hear me from my transmitter sight. Just by chance, as [air carrier] was transmitting to Aircraft Y... Aircraft Z was coming back on frequencies from the 124.9 DNYR controller's last instructions. Aircraft Z thinking this was for him talks to [air carrier] acknowledging for the Aircraft Y transmission, but using Aircraft Z, which [air carrier] heard but did not correlate either. On
a second transmission to have Aircraft Y cancel his approach clearance, I heard Aircraft Z use his Aircraft Z call sign and understood the similar sounding call sign confusion and error, and rectified the remainder of Aircraft Z's flight to LAX. Meanwhile 8-9 miles from the LAX, Aircraft Y was calling STAR asking to slow. This was his first transmission since I had switched him in error 30 miles. STAR took action with Aircraft Y once they figured out the DNYR's traffic. DNYR descended Aircraft Y towards the heavy aircraft. DNYR was climbing the heavy because he was not sure any other way to "get away" from the trailing Aircraft Y catching up so quickly at this late stage clarity that aircraft that he though was separated, were not. Aircraft Y saw the heavy, saw the airport and made a visual approach. the heavy was taken around for another approach, The errors in this sequence of events are noteworthy. I see the following breakdowns or errors as contributory to this scenario. I. EAFR switching Aircraft Y to STAR, and not hearing Aircraft Z's read back for the 124.9 frequencies change. 2.Aircraft Y not checking in on STAR for 30 miles. 3 DNYR transmitting to Aircraft Y but not understanding Aircraft Z was responding. 4. Aircraft Z acknowledging to Aircraft Y's transmissions on multiple occasions. 5. STAR descending Aircraft Y into Aircraft Z instead of climbing away from the conflict. 6. DNYR not taking action to break someone out earlier, even though apparent vertical separation had been maintained (or so he thought). I have been a controller for years. I never thought that I would get tangled up in, or be the first contributory factor for such an event. I hope this event can be a learning tool for others, because only after seeing and hearing all the contributory ATC and Pilot factors, can a "perfect storm" scenario play out to this degree. I feel, correction, I know, that the amount of staffing, or lack there is a contributing factor. On this shift there a staffing number of 11 or 12 bodies. This number changes from new Operations Manager (0M) to 0M and Area rep and their negotiated staffing level. We started this shift with 8 bodies. One (I) of those was incapacitated due to medications, therefore could not work control positions, leaving 7 bodies. One more of these 7 was "half room" certified, leaving 6 bodies to rotate threw the radar sectors. Last I checked if 11 bodies is the staffing number that means we had 63% of our required staffing to work this shift. If 12 bodies is the number then that further degrades what we had available to work that night to a 58% level. This staffing inadequacy is normal! This bears repeating... ...WE ARE UNDERSTAFFED TO WHAT IS BECOMING A DANGEROUS LEVEL. If we were a [Heavy aircraft] that requires 2 pilots, we are metaphorically flying our RADAR sectors with one (1) controller 63% of the time. It's actually worse than that.... .we almost never staff our "hand offs", because of staffing. So we are "flying" our radar sectors solo 1000/0 Of the time, however because we have been in this reduced staffing situation for so many years, it has become the "norm". Now we only have 63% of the staffing that it takes to fly the sectors solo, and people wonder why controllers are having errors. The amount of overtime (OT) being used is extraordinary. In the situation of this event 3
of the 7 usable controllers were on OT. 2 out of the 3 controllers involved in this situation were on OT. Most controllers in this area (LA Arrivals) are being scheduled for [many] day weeks, every week. You have controllers that request for extensions sitting on the table, yet no effort is made in the current administration to supplement staffing by approving the voluntary requests, which will also reduce OT expenditures. I sit here and type this report for 2 hours, trying to make it make sense to the reader. You the reader, will read and discuss, and make a determination of what can we do with the tools that we have available to help. Meanwhile there are controllers working 6 day weeks, with a lot of 10 hour days, hearing bad read backs and correcting the errors, and every once in great while, not catching the error, and a situation like this unfolds. We are working are tails off every day to keep the system safe, and I feel "dis-heartened" that I did not catch the hear back of the wrong frequencies change I issued, that led to so many subsequent other controller/pilot errors. We need more staffing. We need to work less OT but still have full staffing. Synopsis SoCal TRACON Controllers reported the "Perfect Storm" when similar sounding callsigns resulted in a loss of separation on final.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Local Time Of Day : 0001-0600 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZZ.Airport State Reference : FO Environment Flight Conditions : IMC Weather Elements / Visibility Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier : Thunderstorm Make Model Name : B747-800 Advanced Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Mission : Cargo / Freight Flight Phase : Cruise Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Check Pilot Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1458556 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : First Officer Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1458837 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Person : 3
Reference : 3 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1458555 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Track / Heading : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Returned To Clearance Result.FIight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Weather Narrative: 1 Upon reaching our destination airspace at approximately XA35, ATC asked us to hold 70 miles from ZZZ VOR due to large thunderstorms over the airport. Several other aircraft destined for [the] airport were also holding. ATC made it clear that no aircraft were being permitted to make an approach to the airport and would not provide any EFC times. After entering holding, I calculated a "bingo fuel" (minimum fuel at which I would no longer tolerate holding and would proceed to our designated alternate) of 20.5 metric tons. This "bingo fuel" was the sum of 13.3 tons of fuel to fly I hour and five minutes to Ahmedabad and additional 7.2 tons of fuel in reserve. This would allow us to fly to the alternate, make an approach, go missed approach--returning to the radar pattern--then fly one more instrument approach and safely land. As time passed while we held as directed, other aircraft expressed their concern to ATC regarding their limited fuel quantity. A couple of other aircraft began to divert to their designated alternates. At approximately XA45, I called approach two or three times to tell them we would have to divert to our alternate soon due to the lack of fuel onboard. The controller did not answer any of my calls. In my opinion, the controller had become overwhelmed with the number of aircraft requesting to divert to their alternates. At XA48 with 21.8 tons of fuel and with no indication that the weather would clear over the airport in a timely manner, I asked approach control to give us vectors to our alternate. Even after asking three or four times, the controller did not acknowledge any of my requests. At approximately XA50, I elected to proceed to the alternate. Even after the ATC controller did not reply to my calls.
Shortly after stating "fuel emergency" several times, I transmitted that we were leaving holding and proceeding to [alternate] airport by way of ZZZZZI fix at our present flight level. Even then, the ATC controller did not respond. At this point, we looked up other frequencies and attempted to contact air traffic control for assistance. At approximately XA57, we received a voice request over guard frequency (121.5) asking us to return to our previous controllers frequency. We did so and the controller asked if we would like a higher altitude to proceed to our alternate. I requested flight level 320 and we were given flight level 300. It seemed to me as if it was now a different controller on duty, as the voice was not the same as the original controller. At approximately XB13, the controller told us that airport was now open and accepting approaches and was asking if we wanted to return to land. I replied that this would be acceptable, providing we would not be holding prior to landing. With 16.7 tons of fuel remaining, we decided it would be safe to return to [original destination]. Although approach gave us extended vectors north of the airport, our approach and landing was uneventful. We landed with approximately 12.1 tons of fuel as opposed to our planned landing fuel of 21.9 tons, a difference of 9.8 tons. Our total flight time was 5 hours 52 minutes, as opposed to the scheduled flight time Of 4 hours 51 minutes, making our flight time an additional one hour and one minute more than scheduled. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Narrative: 3 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis 3747 flight crew reported being issued a hold without EFC time due to weather.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZZZ.TRACON State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 1500 Environment Light : Dusk Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B737 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Climb Route In Use.SID : ZZZ Airspace.Class B : ZZZ Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1458378 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Function.Flight Crew : First Officer ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1458429 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown
Communication Breakdown.PartyI . • ATC Communication Breakdown. Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : Routine Inspection Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I was the Captain. In our Pre-Departure Clearance (PDC), we were assigned the Departure from Runway, with a clearance to "climb via SID." Per procedure, the departure and the climb via clearance were briefed thoroughly. The climb via has a top altitude of FL 230, and per Company procedures we initially set 12,000' in the MCP window. After takeoff, Tower switched us to Departure. When we checked in, we incorrectly stated "climbing to one-two thousand." First Officer (FO) and I quickly discussed that we needed to indicate that we were climbing via. At this point, the Controller asked if we were indeed climbing via, and this was clearly confirmed with the Controller. After flap retraction, VNAV was engaged and FL230 was set into the MCP. My recollection is that the aircraft continued to climb per the clearance without any further issues. Other than the clarification on the climb via verbiage, the Controller never gave any indication that anything was amiss. Two days later, I received a phone call from (name), Company ATC Specialist. He indicated that ATC was claiming that we had leveled off at 12,000', contrary to our "climb vial' clearance. The First Officer and I had no recollection of such a level off. I found this whole issue very puzzling. Although I was quite sure that we had continued our climb, if we had made an altitude error, why had we not been queried by ATC? It then occurred to me that [our flight track] shows lateral and vertical tracks (in great detail) for each IFR flight, and can be pulled up online. I looked up our flight, and sure enough, we climbed as cleared at more than 2000 fpm. I called the ATC facility. Confronted with the fact that I had empirical evidence supporting our recollection of the continuous climb, (name) indicated to me that the story then changed substantially. ATC was now saying that the Controller was concerned that we "might" level off. If this was the case, the safe thing for the Controller to do would have been to confirm the clearance again with us. However, this did not occur. This left me wondering if ATC would have continued with certificate action based on an absence of factual research. Fortunately, because of modern technology, I have proof contrary to their claims. I am very thankful that (name) brought this to our attention and that our airline is supporting us. To the best of my memory and understanding, we did not operate the aircraft contrary to the clearance. If this is not found to be the case, please advise me so that I can learn from this event. If my understanding Of this situation is correct, it would certainly appear that ATC is acting
in a very predatory, Ready-Fire-Aim manner as far as dealing out enforcement actions on our Pilots. I have learned that our flight is just one of many on this departure being pressed by the FAA. I find this manner dealing with issues to be very damaging to the good working relationship that our Pilot group has historically had with ATC. These actions do nothing to promote Safety, and actually create a barrier to Pilot-Controller cooperation. Furthermore, I feel that the individual who is threatening our certificates, when apparently we operated per the clearance, should be held accountable for this attack on our clean records and careers. Additionally, if problems with altitude compliance are commonplace on the Departure, then perhaps the procedure should be changed or studied by Human Factors Analysts. Barring that, perhaps a Read before Fly or bulletin on the Weather Package should be added to draw Pilot attention to this issue. Pilots do not make mistakes intentionally and are quite skilled, as we know. Multiple transgressions indicate a systemic problem with either the departure, our VNAV procedures, or both. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis A Boeing 737 crew reported that during climb, they checked in with departure and mistakenly stated they were climbing to one-two thousand feet.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZNY.ARTCC State Reference : NY Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : PHL Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Climb Airspace.CIass A : ZNY Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory Center : ZDC Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.Class A : ZNY Aircraft : 3 Reference : Z ATC / Advisory Center : ZNY Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Climb Airspace.CIass A : ZNY Aircraft : 4 Reference : A ATC / Advisory.Center : ZNY Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing
Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Descent Airspace.CIass A : ZNY Aircraft : 5 Reference : B ATC / Advisory Center : ZNY Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.Class A : ZNY Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Facility : ZNY.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Enroute Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1458061 Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Human Factors : Distraction : Situational Awareness Human Factors Confusion Human Factors : Breakdown.Party1 : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Communication Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Facility : ZNY.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Enroute Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified 1 (yrs) : 9.5 : 9.5 Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1458358 Human Factors Human Factors Human Factors Human Factors Human Factors Human Factors Communication Communication Communication Events : Communication Breakdown : Confusion : Distraction : Time Pressure : Workload : Situational Awareness Breakdown.Party1 : ATC Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Breakdown.Party2 : ATC
Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly.Deviation - Track / Heading : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector.Automation : Aircraft RA Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Weather Narrative: 1 Aircraft deviating for weather over CMK opposite direction traffic on top of normal flow at sector 56. This was working in the beginning because it was limited traffic. ZBW called the supervisor's desk to coordinate what they were already doing. When the CIC asked me, my response was "that is exactly what they have been doing". As the traffic picked up and weather moved further east adding to the deviations by all aircraft, it became unsustainable. On top of deviations, reroutes needed to be issued, and climb/descend opposite direction to meet restrictions. An inexperienced RA did what they could to the best of their ability, new Controller in Charge (CIC) didn't know what was happening until it was too late, and Traffic Management Unit (TMU was unaware of the entire situation. I could've stopped the traffic earlier or realized something wasn't right when ZBW called to coordinate what they were doing, TMIJ could've been monitoring the situation, CIC could've monitored situation and replaced inexperienced RA with an experienced one Narrative: 2 A lot was going on due to weather and deviations. This report is associated with the report filed yesterday. Aircraft X, departure off PHL routed over CMK (where all the weather was) was allowed to depart into known weather that no aircraft would go near. I had little room to vector away from aircraft descending into BOS. On top of deviations adding to workload, this was unnecessary. Aircraft Y deviating around weather and BDR when able (believe they were supposed to advise when back on course). Aircraft Y seemed to be heading on an easterly heading. Seeing this, I thought I could turn the Aircraft Z to the north and descend. As soon as I issued the clearance, I noticed Aircraft Y was back on course. I climbed Aircraft Z back up to FL320 and Aircraft Y responded to a TCAS RA and descend. Not realizing B31 was spinning Aircraft A deep in my airspace, when Aircraft B asked for a descent, I started him down and gave the crossing restriction. As soon as Aircraft B started the descent I noticed that Aircraft A was turning toward Aircraft B. I was beyond overwhelmed with amount of traffic and not knowing exactly where the
aircraft were going since most were deviating. The constant questions about the weather and rides clogging the frequency added to this. Having to issue normal reroutes didn't help the situation. Not allowing all traffic to deviate and go back on course opposite direction of the normal traffic. Make sure the supervisor/ControIIer in Charge (CIC) is aware of what is going on. Have an experienced RA working the position. Find it hard to believe T MIJ had no clue what was going on since the weather was affecting ZNY traffic, but ensure the supervisor/CIC bring the situation to their attention. Synopsis New York Center Controllers reported that aircraft were deviating due to weather and the sector was not controlled with aircraft turning into each other.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : EHAM.Airport State Reference : FO Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : EHAM Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Large Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 3 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Taxi Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1457523 Communication Breakdown : Distraction : Fatigue : Situational Awareness Confusion Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Human Factors : Human Factors Human Factors Human Factors Human Factors : Communication Communication Person : 2 Reference : 2 Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Function.FIight Crew : First Officer ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1459216
Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown. Partyl : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Person : 3 Reference : 3 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Function.FIight Crew : Relief Pilot ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1458850 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Fatigue Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Confusion Communication Breakdown. Partyl : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Conflict : Ground Conflict, Critical Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Taxiway Detector. Person : Flight Crew Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : Taxi Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.FIight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 After landing and receiving taxi instructions which were difficult to clearly understand due to the ground controllers accent and rapid speech rate. We proceeded to taxi according to what we read back to ground control. An aircraft after landing behind us took a reverse high speed taxiway and was difficult to see due to it coming behind us at a diagonal, taxied in front [of] us forced us to stop abruptly then ground controller proceed to chastise us about that we were supposed to have stopped and held for aircraft. Strong accent and rapid talking rate from controller with fatigue from all nighter on our part. Double question controllers. Narrative: 2
Landed 36C in EHAM cleared at W 3. Contacted ground control, he spoke very fast, I had to ask 3 times for him to repeat the instructions - Bravo-Quebec, hold short Quebec I. We taxied down Delta (Delta turns into Bravo) I was looking for the hold short point on the taxi chart. At this point an RJ had cleared 36C at W6 a reverse high speed. We were just about to W6 when Ground control asked if we saw the R). I had not seen them because of them coming down the reverse high speed and due the size of the aircraft. They were taxing at pretty fair speed. Ground control then told us to stop and give way. Ground then told us that we should have given way on our own. The ground controller could have been much clearer with the instructions and should have said to give way at W6 or to hold short Of W6 if it was going be an issue. Narrative: 3 This was my first time in AMS. The FO had been there several times recently. The CA had limited experience at this airport. When the taxi clearance was given, I was looking at my 10-9 chart. We had briefed possible taxi instruction during approach briefing. We got cleared according to what we had briefed. Approaching taxiway W6, ground controller gets upset with us because he says he told us to hold short of W6. I don't recall any such instruction. Being in a depleted state of mental alertness due to long overnight flight, I suppose its possible there was such an instruction but none of us heard it. Controller's English was not what we are accustomed to. Synopsis Air carrier flight crew reported a ground conflict at EHAM after all three pilots misunderstood the Ground Controller's hold short instructions because of rapid, accented speech.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Local Time Of Day : 0001-0600 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZZZ.TRACON State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 11000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8757 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Descent Airspace.CIass B : ZZZ Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1456369 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1456371 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown
Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown. Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Crossing Restriction Not Met Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : Taxi When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 We were initially cleared to descend from FL 360 to FL 240. The Captain was (Pilot Flying) and set FL240 in the MCP (Mode Control Panel) and I, the FO (Pilot Monitoring) confirmed. We were then told to descend to 11,000 feet via the arrival. There was lots of confusion with ATC about which arrival we were assigned. Once it was understood that we were a non-RNAV aircraft there was no further discussion of descent clearance that I understood and the MCP was not reset by the PF. As the PF leveled at FL240, he pointed to the MCP ALT window as I (PM) was engaged in confirming descent instructions with the ATC. Just as the PF was telling the PM to ask for lower, ATC asked about our altitude and then cleared us to 5,000 feet. The PF started a steep fast descent to make up for being high. At some point we were cleared to 5000 feet, which was incorrect for our geographical position on the arrival. That required the PF to exceed the speed limit of 280 by 20 kts. We were then cleared again to 11000 feet. The PM then asked if they wanted the speed or the altitude. We were then told to slow to 250 KIAS, then descend to 11,000 feet, which we did and still made [the next waypoint] at 11,000 feet and 250 KIAS. This airplane we flew was non-pegasus (round dial), which is incapable of flying RNAV SIDS or STARS. [This] is a high traffic airport and as usual there was much radio congestion, and a bit of attitude on the part of ATC about our situation. I think that they later realized where the confusion started, which was their difficulty in accommodating a non-RNAV aircraft. The PF was simply doing his best to accommodate the situation and the PM was doing his best to communicate it. With the extreme radio congestion, the PM was unable to effectively communicate what we're doing to solve the problems created in part by flying this airplane in an RNAV environment. There was great confusion by ATC in instructing us to perform RNAV procedures in a non- RNAV aircraft, thus everyone got behind. Narrative: 2 We were initially cleared to descend from FL 360 to FL240. I (PF) set FL240 in the MCP and the FO (PM) confirmed. We were then told to descend to 11 thousand feet. There was lots of confusion w ATC about which arrival we were on. Once it was understood that we were a non-RNAV aircraft there was no further discussion of descent clearance that I understood and the MCP was not reset. As I leveled at FL240, I pointed to the MCP ALT
window as the FO was engaged in discussion with the ATC. Just as I was telling the FO to ask for lower, ATC asked about our altitude and then cleared us to 11 thousand feet. I started a steep fast descent to make up for being high. At some point we were cleared to 5000 which reinforced my thinking. That required me to exceed the speed limit of 280 by about 20 kts. We were recleared to 11000. The FO then asked if they wanted the speed or the altitude. We were then told to slow to 250, then descend to 11 thousand, which we did and still made [the next waypoint] at 11 and 250. This airplane is non-Pegasus (round dial), which is incapable of flying RNAV SIDS or STARS. DFW is a high traffic airport and as usual there was much radio congestion, and a bit of attitude on the part of ATC about our situation. I think that they later realized where the confusion started, which was their difficulty in accommodating a non-RNAV aircraft. However, I was simply doing my best to accommodate the situation and the FO was doing his best to communicate it. With the extreme radio congestion, he was unable to do so effectively and we did what we had to do to solve the problems created in part by flying this airplane in an RNAV environment. Synopsis 3757 flight crew reported that Air Traffic Controllers are instructing 7571s to perform RNAV procedures when basic 757s are not capable.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZTL.ARTCC State Reference : GA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 36000 Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZTL Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Large Transport Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.Class A : Z TL Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory Center : ZTL Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Large Transport Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass A : Z TL Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 232 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 9075 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1455862 Communication Breakdown Human Factors : : Situational Awareness Human Factors Confusion Human Factors : Communication Breakdown.Party1 : ATC Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Communication Person : 2
Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Function.Flight Crew : Captain Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 294 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 10300 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1455866 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Confusion Communication Breakdown.Party1 : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Excursion From Assigned Altitude Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.FIight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Primary Problem : Company Policy Narrative: 1 Our call sign was Air Carrier XYXX. Approximately one hour into the flight at cruise altitude, both the Captain and the First Officer heard ATC clear us to descend to 35,000 feet. The Captain repeated the clearance to ATC and the First Officer set 35,000 feet into the mode control panel and confirmed the new altitude with the Captain before starting the descent. As the aircraft descended through 35,300 feet ATC told us that we had accepted a clearance intended for Air Carrier XXXX and told us to climb back to 36,000 feet. ATC then told us that Air Carrier XXXX was on frequency and had a similar sounding call sign. The rest of the flight and landing was uneventful. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis Air carrier flight crew reported taking a clearance intended for a different aircraft with a similar sounding call sign.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : OAK Airport State Reference : CA Relative Position. Distance. Nautical Miles : 3 Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 2900 Environment Flight Conditions : Mixed Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : 10 Light : Night Ceiling.SingIe Value : 500 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : NCT Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8737 Next Generation Undifferentiated Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use.LocaIizer/GIidesIope/ILS : Runway 30 Flight Phase : Initial Approach Airspace.Class C : OAK Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 365 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 10000 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1455206 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck
Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1455228 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Fatigue Human Factors : Situational Awareness Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Overshoot Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Returned To Clearance Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 While on downwind for an approach to OAK Runway 30, ATC gave a turn to base and a descent from 4000 ft to what I thought was 2400 ft. I thought the FO read back 2400 ft, and as I was hand flying I asked him to set 2400 ft in the altitude window. Descending through 2900 ft MSL ATC advised us we were below our assigned altitude of 3400 ft. I immediately climbed the aircraft to 3400 ft and remarked to the FO that I thought we were cleared to 2400 ft. ATC then said we were below the minimum vectoring altitude for the sector. Published altitudes on the ILS 30 Approach are 2700 ft for WUVON and 2000 ft for MITOE (FAF). As we were being vectored to intercept final near WIJVON, the 2400 ft altitude didn't seem unreasonable. At no time did we receive a GPWS warning. Both Pilots had TERRAIN selected on their map displays, and no terrain conflicts were noted. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis 3737 flight crew reported a low altitude alert on approach to OAK due to miscommunication on the cleared altitude.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : BOS.Airport State Reference : MA Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : BOS Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Small Transport, Low Wing, 2 Recip Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Takeoff Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.Tower : BOS Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8737 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Takeoff Aircraft : 3 Reference : Z ATC / Advisory.Tower : BOS Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Light Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turboprop Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Taxi Person : 1
Reference : I Location Of Person.FaciIity : BOS. Tower Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Local Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control.Time Certified In Pos 1 (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1455164 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Confusion Communication Breakdown. Partyl : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Function. Flight Crew : First Officer ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1455461 Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown. Partyl : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Person : 3 Reference : 3 Location Of Person.Aircraft : Y Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 384 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 9500 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1455848 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Person : 4 Reference : 4 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1455460 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Communication Breakdown : 22
Communication Breakdown.PartyI . • ATC Communication Breakdown. Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Ground Conflict, Critical Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Runway Detector. Person : Flight Crew Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : Taxi Result.General : Flight Cancelled / Delayed Result.FIight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.FIight Crew : Returned To Clearance Result.Flight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.Air Traffic Control : Separated Traffic Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I cleared Aircraft Y for takeoff. I instructed Aircraft Z to line up and wait. Holding short at an intersection was Aircraft X. While Aircraft Y was commencing departure roll, Aircraft X began to line up and wait at the intersection. I immediately told Aircraft X to stop and cancelled the takeoff clearance of Aircraft Y who was aborting takeoff at the same time. We had just completed the fourth runway change of the shift and were in departure delays of more than 30 minutes. Gate holds were in effect and it was a high volume, high complexity environment. Nobody realized that the similar sounding call signs existed. Had it been caught and the procedures applied, I don't believe this incident would have happened. I don't have any recommendations. If anyone had realized that the similar call signs were there, the strips would have been marked accordingly and everyone would have been made aware of the situation. Narrative: 2 On our taxi to depart, the winds shifted to favor a different runway. With that being said all of the traffic was given new taxi instructions to change runways. We were given the new runway at an intersection. Once we were the next in line to depart we heard tower clear us to line up and wait. I read the clearance back to the tower and we started rolling. My Captain and I thought that it was suspicious that we were given this clearance because Aircraft Y had just been given the clearance to line up and wait. They were also asked if they could maintain visual separation from the traffic who had just departed. With that being said I thought it could be possible that they were trying to depart us before Aircraft Y, because they were trying to clear up the traffic jam that was taking place. As we rolled over the hold short line, I saw that Aircraft Y had their lights on and relayed
that information to the Captain. At this point the pilot came to a complete stop, short of the runway but over the hold short line. Due to this Aircraft Y aborted their takeoff and both of us were instructed to taxi down the road and exit. At this point the incident was over. After landing at our destination we reviewed the recordings and realized Aircraft Z, the same [flight] number as my Captains had been cleared to line up, yet the [carrier] part of the transmission had been blocked. We simply heard our number and line up and wait. The tape is very garbled, giving me reason to believe the tower did not catch which airline called back but heard the same number. It is clear to me now that I was at fault for this incident. I should have been more vigilant and should've asked for clarification if there was any doubt in my gut. Narrative: 3 We were cleared for takeoff by Tower and were issued maintain visual separation from preceding aircraft. I set the takeoff power and called for the Captain to set takeoff thrust. After checking the other aircraft, our alignment on the runway, and the engine settings I noticed movement at the left side of the runway. Aircraft X crossed the hold short line at an intersection in front of us. As I saw the movement, the Captain did as well. As all that happened, Tower commanded the other aircraft to stop, and canceled our takeoff clearance. The Captain took the aircraft and aborted somewhere between 65-80 knots. We successfully avoided the other aircraft and cleared the runway. We held on a taxiway to notify the Company via ACARS and complete all our checklists. We wanted to slow down the situation until both Pilots were ready to go and the aircraft was configured properly for flight. We also took the opportunity to let our passengers use the lavatory. After checking brake temperatures and running all applicable checklists, we fell back into line and completed the leg to ZZZ without incident. Narrative: 4 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis A Tower Controller and two associated pilots reported a ground conflict and runway incursion due to an aircraft that taxied over the hold bars due to similar callsigns.
Time / Day Date : 201706 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZDC.ARTCC State Reference : VA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 31000 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZDC Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : EMB ERJ 145 ER/LR Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Direct Airspace.Class A : ZDC Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.Center : ZDC Aircraft Operator : Corporate Make Model Name : Bombardier/Canadair Undifferentiated or Other Model Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Direct Airspace.CIass A : ZDC Aircraft : 3 Reference : Z ATC / Advisory.Center : ZDC Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Regional Jet 200 ER/LR (CRJ200) Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Flight Phase : Climb Airspace.CIass A : ZDC Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Facility : ZDC.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Enroute
Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1454647 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Confusion Communication Breakdown.Party1 : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Facility : ZDC.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Enroute Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1454669 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Confusion Communication Breakdown.Party1 : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types : 13 : 26 Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Excursion From Assigned Altitude Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.Air Traffic Control : Separated Traffic Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 Aircraft Human Factors I was expecting Aircraft X to check on frequency. However Aircraft Y was the aircraft which actually checked on. I hadn't noticed different call sign nor was I expecting a similar sounding aircraft to check in, hence I descended Aircraft Y to 21000 feet. A moment later Aircraft X checked on frequency which caused suspicion and called up Aircraft Y after hearing across the room another controller calling Aircraft Y. I quick looked the sector and saw the event in progress. I told the controller I will stop Aircraft Y at 29000 feet, promptly called close proximity traffic and after coordination I made a communication change to next controller sector. This was a similar sounding call sign event. By aircraft checking on frequency and not stating their assigned altitude didn't help me to recognize that incorrect call sign from expectation of another aircraft, still a recognition issue none the less.
Narrative: 2 Aircraft Y was on frequency along with Aircraft X. Aircraft X was given a frequency change and there was some garbled read back. Aircraft Y asked if the communication switch was for them and I said yes. Aircraft Y then checked onto the next sector frequency with no altitude in the check in. That sector's controller descended Aircraft Y thinking he was talking to Aircraft X. Meanwhile Aircraft Z was a departure that was climbed to 30000 feet to go under Aircraft Y. I noticed Aircraft Y start to descend and tried to call him to ask why he was descending. I could not and then turned Aircraft Z and climbed him to 33000 feet. At this time the other sector controller realized that he had Aircraft Y and stopped their descent at 29000 feet as we had traffic at 28000 feet. The callsigns are problematic as a lot of controllers say they confuse the two and that the pilots will question who it was for as they hear the similar callsigns. Also in this issue the numbers were very close. If Aircraft Y had checked onto the frequency and stated their altitude it may have caused the controller to question him as that sector only owns to 23000 feet. Synopsis Center Controllers reported the wrong aircraft took a frequency change and descent clearance due to similar sounding call signs.
Time / Day Date : 201705 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 3500 Environment Flight Conditions : Mixed Weather Elements / Visibility : Rain Weather Elements / Visibility : Thunderstorm Weather Elements / Visibility.VisibiIity : 10 Light : Daylight Ceiling.Single Value : 3300 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : King Air C90 E90 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Training Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Nav In Use : GPS Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Route In Use : Vectors Airspace.CIass C : ZZZ Component Aircraft Component : Air/Ground Communication Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Design Problem : Malfunctioning Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Function.Flight Crew : Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP)
Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 4700 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 80 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 1400 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1453976 Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Analyst Callback : Completed Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Trainee Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Experience.FIight Crew. Total : 1222 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 101 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 310 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1453975 Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Analyst Callback : Attempted Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Other / Unknown Anomaly.Deviation - Track / Heading : All Types Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Flight Crew Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.General : Maintenance Action Result.Flight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.FIight Crew : Returned To Clearance Result.Flight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification
Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Result.Aircraft : Automation Overrode Flight Crew Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 I was in the right seat serving in my capacity as an instrument and multiengine airplane flight instructor. We were in my students King Air C90-A. My student was in the left seat. I was doing the radio work. Thunderstorms and rain showers were a factor all the way from our departure point to our destination. We made several adjustments to our route, relying on the on-board weather radar, XM weather, ADS-B weather, and our visual perceptions. As we approached [our destination], we received and copied ATIS Information, a special observation. The airport was VFR, ceilings were 3,300 broken and 4,600 broken. There was lightning observed to the southwest. Aircraft were being vectored for the ILS approaches. Visibility was reported as 10 miles. On our cockpit weather depictions we could see some strong storms (later characterized by Approach Control in the follow-up telephone call as "extreme precipitation") approaching the airport from the southwest, and since the ceilings were so high, on our initial contact with Approach Control we requested a visual approach (in order to get us on the ground as soon as possible). This external pressure to get on the ground will show up later in this report. Approach indicated we would have to see what worked out. As we were vectored northwest of the field, both pilots could clearly see the runway, with which we were aligned. We were at 5,000 feet. Again, just north of the field as we proceeded eastbound toward a right downwind, we could clearly see [the other] runways, still at an altitude of 5,000 feet. As we were turned south on the east side of the field, a right downwind, we entered clouds at 5,000 feet and lost contact with the ground. We were then instructed to descend to 4,000 feet and to turn left to 130 for traffic. We later were instructed to turn right to 270 southeast of the field. (Later adjusted to 280). Approach Control asked if we had the field in sight, and partially concerned that we had been vectored around for 8 - 10 minutes, all while extreme precipitation was fast approaching, and feeling a lot of external pressure to get my student safely on the ground, I reported the field in sight. The radios were already set to perform the ILS approach. We were now at 3,500 feet and had seen the airport more than once from 5,000 feet with good reported visibility. The field was clearly 1:30 just out my side of the aircraft. By the way, even though the ceiling was very ragged and uneven, and we had detoured around precipitation the entire trip, we were in VMC conditions at this point, and I knew which way the airport was, so I called "my airplane" and initiated a right turn toward the field. I dodged further right to miss some light precipitation or virga and I inadvertently overshot my turn, putting us on a course approximately parallel to the final approach course, instead of on a course to intercept it. As I was beginning a turn back to the left toward the
airport, the approach controller called with something like "where are you going?" I admitted I had turned too far right and I think I stated I was correcting, but the controller canceled our visual approach clearance and turned us westbound. It was just after we had been turned westbound, toward the extreme precipitation southwest of the field that communications disaster struck. The Garmin-750 arbitrarily, and with no input from either pilot, toggled the active and standby communications frequencies. The action returned us to the previous frequency we had been using, Memphis Center, though unbeknown to us at the time. A little history of that GTN-750: when it was first installed, there were numerous instances of the standby com frequency becoming the active with absolutely no human intervention. A couple of times I actually witnessed the event as it occurred. The standby frequency numbers would highlight, then the two frequencies would swap places, the standby becoming the active. As I say, I am aware that this happened numerous times after the unit was first installed some time ago, but to my knowledge it has not happened once in over a year, and assumed the problem had been addressed in one of the software updates Garmin provides. Apparently, we later learned, Approach Control desperately tried to reach us on their own frequency and on the emergency frequency, as the heading we were on was taking us right toward the extreme precipitation. Their efforts were to no avail, for we were not monitoring Guard, and were unaware that the corn frequency had changed on its own. We did fly along for a couple of minutes westbound with no word from Approach, but I assumed they were vectoring us way west of the field for re-sequencing, and may have been irritated at the earlier turn overshoot. Finally, Center reached us and told us to contact approach. Good thinking, Approach! Once we were back in contact, we were turned to 020. We were told to descend first to 3,500 feet, [then] 2,600 feet and we were turned to 155 to proceed east for the ILS. Later headings of 020 and 340 led to the instruction to intercept the final approach course for a landing on 31. After we landed I was instructed to call the tower for a possible pilot deviation. Things I have learned: If there is a 2 person crew, it would be advisable for both pilots to identify the airport (or traffic) before accepting a visual approach or committing to maintaining visual separation. It would be prudent (as well as helpful to others) to monitor Guard. We would have been out of communication for only seconds instead of minutes had this been our habit. There is a VOR on the field and this aircraft was equipped with RMI. Instead of both radios being tuned to the ILS, it would have been better to have the RMI needle pointing to the field, for easier visualization. I will make a more determined effort to keep external pressures, such as the rapidly
approaching weather we saw on radar, from negatively influencing my decision making. Finally, regarding the avionics malfunction, the old adage "a problem that goes away by itself, comes back by itself" should be kept in mind. By the way, the owner's GTN-750, still under warranty, was sent in for repair at the earliest opportunity. Callback: 1 The reporter's GTN 750 has had numerous uncommanded frequency changes in the last several years. He reported witnessing the screen illuminating as it normally would after being touched and considered that possibly dust or other contaminant fell on it. The GTN 750 can communicate with the iPad ForeFIight App only for route changes, not frequency changes. Narrative: 2 I was on a training flight. I was in the left seat, receiving training. In the right seat was a multi engine instructor. Both of us are rated for the aircraft. My copilot was handling the radio communications and giving me instruction, and I was doing the majority of the actual flying. I have learned a myriad of lessons from this incident. First, the visual approach on a busy day was a mistake number one. Being capable of doing an ILS approach, I should have opted for that. If the weather was just so terrible, I think that I should have considered landing at some other airport or have just stayed on the ground altogether. I have learned that just because another pilot has been flying longer, outranks you, and has more hours that it doesn't mean that pilot has better judgment or is doing the right thing. I need to question others early. I think not hearing from approach for so long should have been a red flag. Synopsis A BE9L flight crew reported the aircraft's GTN750 autonomously changed frequency after beginning a visual approach turn to base. The aircraft overshot final then entered IMC, but they could not communicate with Approach Control.
Time / Day Date : 201705 Local Time Of Day : 0001-0600 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : U90.TRACON State Reference : AZ Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 4000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : U90 Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8737-800 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : GPS Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Initial Approach Airspace.CIass C : TUS Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1451902 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Confusion Communication Breakdown.Party1 : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP)
ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1451904 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Confusion Communication Breakdown. Partyl : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Speed : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Flight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 Airspace Structure Company Policy Human Factors Manuals Procedure Center cleared us Direct JOVIM direct TUS, ATIS reported to expect the visual app, cleared to cross JOVIM 14000 feet 280 knots. Just prior to JOVIM approach says expect RNV GPS to 29R. Then tells us to turn to intercept final app course. I have no idea what he means we are now turning to go direct TUS as previously cleared. We ask what he means and approach repeats, "turn to intercept final approach". I had the approach loaded in the box but did not select JOVIM transition. I turned toward ATOGE. Told controller we need a fix. Still not cleared for the approach or the visual. Approach says go to VEDTU which is after JOVIM. So reloaded the arrival got headed to VEDTU. Finally cleared for the approach landed uneventful. The whole event was nonstandard. Was late to slow below 10k due to total lack of understanding of the clearance. Event was due to nonstandard approach clearance "turn to intercept final approach course" with no approach clearance given. If he wanted us to fly the RNAV GPS 29R he need to give us clearance before JOVIM or past JOVIM a vector to a fix on the approach. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis Air carrier flight crew reported receiving an amended approach clearance with nonstandard confusing phraseology.
Time / Day Date : 201705 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : EIDW.Airport State Reference : FO Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 15000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Dawn Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : EISN Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Large Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 3 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Nav In Use : GPS Flight Phase : Descent Route In Use.STAR : OLAPO IL Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 12845 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 8077 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1450732 Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Analyst Callback : Attempted Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck
Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.Flight Crew : Captain Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience.FIight Crew. Total : 3197 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 393 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1450762 Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Track / Heading : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.FIight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Chart Or Publication Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 We were cleared direct to OLAPO for the OLAPOIL Arrival. Near OLAPO, Dublin Approach issued the clearance "direct to KERAV to hold", which was about 55 miles away. The OLAPOIL arrival chart (10-2F) depicts "209 degree Inbound Course with Right Hand Turns." When we initially asked for clarification on whether to execute non-published holding or hold as published, Dublin Approach responded "Hold with Right Hand Turns." This led to multiple inquiries by both the Non-flying Pilot (FO) and the Flying Pilot (Captain) for Dublin Approach to clarify whether she wanted us to establish non-published holding on our inbound course of 109 degrees or to fly the published holding pattern. Dublin Approach's reply continued to be "enter holding with a right hand turn." Finally, the NFP asked "Do you want us to hold as published or do you want us to hold on a non- published 109 inbound course right hand turn?" She simply stated "The latter." At this point, the Captain, FO, and IRO felt that we had received confirmation to execute a non- published holding pattern even though the controller never used the terms "non- published" or "published". The Captain had the IRO look up the holding speeds and leg distances for Ireland. Passing KERAV, I called "entering holding and requested an expected clearance time." The controller responded initially "One round" and amended it to "two rounds of holding." On the initial outbound leg of the hold, the controller asked when we were we were going to start our turn north. When we tried to explain that we understood her instructions to establish non-published holding, she responded "There is confusion all around." At that
point, we were given a radio frequency change to another Dublin Approach Controller. He initially gave us direct to GIRAS followed by vectors to the Final Approach Course. The remainder of the flight was uneventful. In retrospect, the best course of action would have been to refuse holding and ask for vectors unless we could get a verbal confirmation of either "published" or "non-published" holding. There was no conflict with any traffic at any time. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis Air carrier flight crew reported confusion due to improper instructions about holding on the EIDW OLAPO IL Arrival approaching the KERAV.
Time / Day Date : 201705 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : DFW.Airport State Reference : TX Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC/ Advisory.Ground : DEW Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Large Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Taxi Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC/ Advisory.Ground : DEW Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Medium Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Flight Phase : Taxi Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1449208 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Person : 2
Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1449225 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Conflict : Ground Conflict, Critical Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : Taxi Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 Human Factors Procedure We landed on 17L at DFW. Given the standard Echo Sierra Route. On JS Ground was contacted. Given the clearance "K" to the Ramp. I proceeded up to K 12 to make the right and left turn to transition to I was about half way into the right turn when the First Officer and I at the same time saw Aircraft Y on "K" taxing at a brisk pace. I slammed on the brakes and stopped short of "K." Aircraft Y passed by without breaking pace. The passengers knew we had made an unusual stop. I taxied to [the] Gate without any more issues. I called ATC Ground control when I got into the terminal. I spoke with the Supervisor. He agreed that I was following his instructions, as was Aircraft Y, but Aircraft Y decided to join "K" sooner, and pass me before I got on "K. " Too close to be comfortable. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis Air carrier Captain reported a conflict with another aircraft while taxiing at DFW.
Time / Day Date : 201705 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : JZI.Airport State Reference : SC Relative Position.Angle.Radial : 270 Relative Position. Distance. Nautical Miles : 6 Altitude.MSL.SingIe Value : 1600 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.VisibiIity : 10 Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : CHS Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : PA-28 Cherokee/Archer/Dakota/Pillan/Warnor Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Training Nav In Use. Localizer/GIidesIope/ILS Flight Phase : Initial Approach Airspace.Class E : CHS Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.TRACON : CHS : Runway 9 Make Model Name : Dassault-Breguet Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Flight Plan : IFR Nav In Use.Localizer/Glideslope/ILS : Runway 9 Flight Phase : Initial Approach Airspace.CIass E : CHS Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Private Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 124 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 43 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 124
ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1448461 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Workload Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.Flight Crew : Other / Unknown Qualification.Flight Crew : Private Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 283 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 74 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 283 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1448485 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Workload Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Wake Vortex Encounter Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Unstabilized Approach Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.HorizontaI : 800 Miss Distance.VerticaI : 600 When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Executed Go Around / Missed Approach Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 [We were cleared] for a practice ILS approach to RWY 09 at JZI. The crew consisted of myself (simulated instrument for this approach) and a safety pilot. I completed the procedure turn, and proceeded inbound. At this point in the approach, CHS TRACON was still providing traffic advisories to our aircraft and other aircraft inbound to JZI. Very near glideslope interception, we overheard a Falcon discussing with TRACON a potential traffic conflict. The jet reported having Cherokee traffic in sight. TRACON then contacted us with an advisory that traffic was just behind us and at a slightly higher altitude, but descending into JZI. The controller directed us to maintain 1,500 feet. The safety pilot immediately read back the instruction to TRACON and attempted to query how close the traffic was to our position. TRACON did not immediately acknowledge the
call and told the Falcon pilot that we were no longer talking to her. Upon hearing this, the safety pilot again repeated the assigned altitude and queried the controller about the position of the traffic. Before the controller could reply, the jet overtook us at about 400- 600 feet vertically, and 800 feet laterally. Significant wake turbulence from the jet affected us nearly immediately, as we did not have proper time or space for avoidance procedures. I immediately added power and stayed above the jet's glide path. I terminated the approach, as it was no longer stabilized, and the Falcon was on the runway. Upon going missed, we were assigned a new transponder code, and we proceeded to our next destination with no further issues. Contributing factors to this include: -A heavy workload for both TRACON and myself and safety pilot -Controller may have had difficulty hearing or understanding aircraft with all of the airplanes in the airspace at that time. -The fact that 2 airplanes were cleared into JZI to the same runway at the same time with such little separation (especially considering the different approach speeds). Narrative: 2 Human performance considerations: I) Our workload was high during/intercepting the approach in turbulent conditions 2) Controller seemed to have issues understanding us at times and at others could hear us loud and clear. We found no issues after multiple radio checks 3) Controller workload seemed very high. There was a lot of incoming/outbound traffic 4) Lack of clear communication caused the problem 5) Minimal separation of aircraft with vastly different approach speeds is dangerous, we would have gladly been vectored around to allow jet traffic to go ahead of us instead of overtake us on a practice ILS approach Synopsis PA28 pilot and safety pilot reported an airborne conflict and wake turbulence encounter when ATC cleared a Falcon jet for approach to the same runway they were flying a practice ILS to.
Time / Day Date : 201705 Place Locale Reference.Airport : MYF.Airport State Reference : CA Relative Position. Distance. Nautical Miles • 5 Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 3600 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : 12 Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 25000 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : MYF Aircraft Operator : Corporate Make Model Name : Light Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.CIass E : SCT Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory. Tower : MYF Make Model Name : Cessna 152 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Phase : Climb Airspace.CIass E : SCT Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Corporate Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification. Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 4200 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 90 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 600
ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1447809 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Distraction Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Corporate Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 3500 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 150 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 1400 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1448373 Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Excursion From Assigned Altitude Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Detector.Automation : Aircraft RA Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 Airport Human Factors Procedure We were flying on an IFR flight plan and were cleared for the visual at approximately the extended center line at Miramar to 28R at Montgomery and to stay at or above 3000 crossing the 52 freeway. We switched frequencies and had trouble checking in due to high traffic volume on the radio frequency. I slowed to approximately 160 knots to give more time to check in and crossed the 52 at approximately 3800 feet. We heard tower talking to a C152 departing downwind calling us out as traffic to them. We still were not able to break into radio traffic and started looking for the 152. We saw the 152 on our TCAS and I stopped our descent at around 3500 feet to look for the traffic. At this time there was a break in radio traffic and Montgomery Tower called out the 152 traffic to us at the exact time we received an RA from our TCAS and climbed to approximately 3700 feet. The Captain answered Montgomery tower stating we were performing an RA climb and looking
for traffic. Almost immediately I was able to see the traffic out the left side of the aircraft and at that time traffic was no factor. We continued to enter right base for runway 28R and landed uneventfully. We contacted tower to see if we can all work out a better arrival from the north for us so this would not happen again. In the morning at Montgomery there is very little if not no traffic when we arrived so a visual to 28R from the north is still feasible. In the afternoon however there is an abundance of traffic and we all decided that it would be better to perform the ILS approach to 28R for traffic confliction. We have unofficially incorporated this procedure into our flights into Montgomery and are working to incorporate this into our SOP. It has only been a few days past but this does seem to work better. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis Turboprop flight crew reported an issue with conflicting traffic during arrival to MYF.
Time / Day Date : 201705 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : NEW. Airport State Reference : LA Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 500 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Night Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : NEW Make Model Name : Skyhawk 172/Cutlass 172 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Flight Phase : Landing Route In Use : None Airspace.CIass D : NEW Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.Tower : NEW Make Model Name : PA-32 Cherokee Six/Lance/Saratoga/6X Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Flight Phase : Landing Route In Use : None Airspace.CIass D : NEW Aircraft : 3 Reference : Z ATC / Advisory. Tower : NEW Make Model Name : Any Unknown or Unlisted Aircraft Manufacturer Flight Phase : Landing Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.FaciIity : NEW. Tower Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Supervisor / CIC Function.Air Traffic Control : Ground Function.Air Traffic Control : Flight Data / Clearance Delivery Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos 1 (yrs) : 4
ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1447486 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Human-Machine Interface Communication Breakdown.PartyI : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.FaciIity : NEW. Tower Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Local Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control.Time Certified In Pos 1 (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1448818 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Confusion Communication Breakdown.PartyI : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly.Deviation - Track / Heading : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Executed Go Around / Missed Approach Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 Procedure Human Factors While working GC, FD, CD, and CIC combined, Aircraft Z had landed Rwy36L which we were on a North flow. Upon our communication Aircraft Z was taxied to park but seconds later the aircraft keyed up and asked if the tower knew that those two airplanes were lined up for the same runway. I keyed up and said "Affirmative". I then asked the LC what happened and he replied, "I sent him around'. Not sure what led up to the event because it was a pretty routine day and nothing difficult at all with the traffic. Better scanning and planning. Narrative: 2 I had Aircraft Y in right closed traffic on runway 36R. He was flying a normal pattern with 1 mile bases. Aircraft X called inbound about 5 miles east. Aircraft Y was at the runway so I instructed Aircraft X to enter right base. Aircraft X entered at a 1 mile right base as Aircraft Y began to turn downwind I mile north. I was also monitoring a Cessna that had landed 36L to ensure he remained clear of 36R. When Aircraft X turned and began down
final, I looked back behind me and saw Aircraft Y midfield right downwind. I had not yet made any transmission to Aircraft Y on this time around. I planned to clear him for his next option number 2 behind the Cessna when his downwind was adjacent to Aircraft X. I observed Aircraft X coming down final and scanned the runway for any problems. As I went to look back to see Aircraft Y's progress on downwind, I saw he had turned a short approach and was turning just in front and beneath Aircraft X on short final. Aircraft X saw him at the same time a keyed up telling me he was going to go around. I told him yes to go around. I then instructed Aircraft Y to stay on the ground so he would not execute a touch and go underneath Aircraft X. Aircraft Y made an unexpected short approach, cut off an aircraft short final, and landed on the runway. All without clearance nor any communication. Had I told Aircraft Y he was going to be number 2, the event probably would not have occurred, however that was not required nor in my opinion at the time needed, as they were well more than adequately spaced in the pattern and would not have been close to a factor had Aircraft Y not decided to approach and land without a clearance. The event occurred do to Pilot error. A standalone CIC may have provided an extra pair of eyes that would have seen Aircraft Y turn in sooner however the CIC may also have been checking the Cessna at a critical phase of flight and checking the runway to ensure it was safe to land. The aircraft went from safely on downwind to a factor in seconds. My best recommendation to prevent a re-occurrence would be refresher training for the pilot. Synopsis Lake Front Tower Controllers reported that an aircraft cut off the sequenced first arrival, causing the first aircraft to go around.
Time / Day Date : 201705 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B737 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Taxi Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Make Model Name : Any Unknown or Unlisted Aircraft Manufacturer Flight Phase : Taxi Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 151 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1447207 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown. Partyl : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier
Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 230 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 3000 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1447220 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown. Partyl : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Runway Detector. Person : Flight Crew Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : Taxi Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.Flight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 As we approached the end of runway, FO told Tower we were ready for takeoff. We both heard "no delay, cleared for takeoff". At the time we did not see any other aircraft at the end of the runway. As I started to take the runway I saw movement on the other side and stopped well short of the runway but not before crossing the hold line. We then queried ATC who informed us the clearance was for another aircraft. They subsequently cleared us for takeoff. First I broke my number 1 rule: If not 100 percent sure stop and verify! I will redouble my efforts to slow it down and be 100 percent sure of any and all clearances! Narrative: 2 Upon reaching the end of Taxiway X, I called Tower and informed them we were ready to depart. We did not see a small general aviation aircraft on the other side of the runway also waiting to depart. I then heard Tower clear us to depart (what I thought). I read back the instructions as we rounded the corner from Taxiway X. Upon crossing the hold short line I heard Tower clear another aircraft to depart. We immediately came to a stop and saw the general aviation aircraft on the opposite taxiway. He also had crossed his hold short line. Tower inquired if we had already crossed the line and I acknowledged that we had. We were then cleared for an immediate departure. The small general aviation aircraft was asked to make a 180 back across his hold short line. He complied. When in question VERIFY! I did not do this. Verify your call sign in ANY ATC radio transmission. I assumed the takeoff clearance was for us and due to partially blocked radio call, missed the fact that it was not for us.
Synopsis 3737 flight crew reported they thought a clearance from the Tower to depart was for them, but was actually a clearance for an aircraft entering from the other side. The error was not detected prior to crossing the hold line.
Time / Day Date : 201704 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZZZ.ARTCC State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 36000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZZZ Make Model Name : Embraer Phenom 100 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : GPS Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Descent Airspace.CIass A : ZZZ Component Aircraft Component : GPS & Other Satellite Navigation Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1444830 : Communication Breakdown : Distraction Situational Awareness Human Factors Human Factors Human Factors : Human Factors : Troubleshooting Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Confusion Breakdown. Partyl Communication Breakdown. Party2 Communication Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew : Flight Crew : ATC
Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 1800 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 40 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 150 ASRS Report Number.Accesslon Number : 1444835 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Troubleshooting Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Distraction Communication Breakdown. Partyl : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown. Party2 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Excursion From Assigned Altitude Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Other / Unknown Detector.Automation : Aircraft RA Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.HorizontaI : 5000 Miss Distance.VerticaI : 600 When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Returned To Clearance Result.Flight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 On a flight to ZZZ we had been cleared to descend from FL380 to FL360. As soon as we leveled at FL360 we began to have GPS issues. The CAS message displayed "both on GPS I". Shortly thereafter we completely lost GPS signal. The autopilot reverted to pitch and roll mode. As the Pilot Flying (PF) was resetting the autopilot to altitude hold and heading mode ATC gave us a traffic call. The call was, "Traffic at 12 0'clock at FL370 and FL350". The PF (busy resetting the autopilot) did not hear the full radio call, only the altitudes. The Pilot monitoring (PM) thought he heard, "Traffic at 12 0'clock at FL370, descend to FL350".
The PM told the PF to start the descent to FL350. A descent was initiated and almost immediately the PF spotted the traffic at FL350. The PF immediately commanded the autopilot to climb back to FL360. As we leveled at FL360 the B737 at FL350 reported that they received a TCAS RA, and reported that they showed that we were 400' low. ATC asked us to verify our altitude. We told them that we were level at FL360, but that we were having some GPS/autopiIot issues we were working on. She advised us that she never saw us leave FL360. Several minutes later GPS signal was restored, and the rest of the flight was completed without incident. Moving forward, more attention will be given to verifying clearances during high workload times. Additionally, any time both crew members do not hear the full clearance, we will ask ATC for clarification. Narrative: 2 After leveling off at FL360 we received a GPS 1 alert. Shortly after the first alert almost simultaneously we received a full GPS outage and autopilot kicked into roll and pitch mode. While monitoring the GPS page and programming the Automated Flight Control System (AFCS) panel ATC gave the crew traffic advisories for traffic at FL350 and FL370 both opposite direction. Both crew members were immersed resolving the issue the PM thought he heard descend to 350 for traffic at 370. Very shortly after starting the descent we spotted the traffic at FL350 realized that we had misunderstood the controller and immediately returned to FL360. The traffic at FL350 reported to ATC that he had received a RA. ATC reported that she never received any indication that we had vacated our assigned altitude. Shortly after this exchange the GPS reception returned back to normal. Once in a non-critical phase of flight the crew reflected on the event while it was fresh on our minds and discussed the things that could have been done differently. Most importantly confirm any instructions that the crew is unsure of. Synopsis An EMB-500 flight crew reported their Crew Alerting System (CAS) alerted GPS OUTAGE at which time the autopilot reverted to PITCH and ROLL. The crew misunderstood ATC and mistakenly began a descent to FL 350 while dealing with the autopilot but TCAS alerted RA at which point they returned to FL350. Shortly thereafter, GPS returned to normal.
Time / Day Date : 201704 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : LWB.Airport State Reference : WV Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 5200 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZDC Aircraft Operator : Fractional Make Model Name : Light Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use.Other Airspace.Class E : ZDC Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Fractional Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1444284 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Fractional Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1444285
Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Time Pressure Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Excursion From Assigned Altitude Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 On approach to LWB while descending to 6,000 we were directed to go direct to the airport and call the airport when in sight and we then called the airport. We then both believed Washington cleared us for the visual approach to Runway 22. We had the RNAV 22 approach in the box at that time [and] I gave the First Officer direct to DENLE. The First Officer started his descent and passing through 5,200 ATC asked if we had the field in sight and we told him that we did. He replied back that his MVA was 6,000 feet for that area and that he had not cleared us for the visual. He then cleared us for the visual to Runway 22 and turned us over to [the] Tower. There was never a conflict with terrain or other traffic. Just a normal visual approach. [Due to] frequency congestion, work load, and [expectation bias] we may have missed part of his communication to us. After landing and discussing the situation we both thought he had cleared [us] for the approach. I need to have more situational awareness in the future and query ATC when there is a possible miscommunication. Narrative: 2 On descent to LWB while descending to 6,000 with the autopilot engaged we were asked by Washington Center if we had the airport in sight. Captain (pilot monitoring) replied affirmative and we were told to go direct to the field. (We both believed we heard cleared for the visual approach). We had the RNAV GPS Runway 22 approach loaded in the FMS as a back up to our planned and briefed visual approach. The Captain selected direct to DENLE (FAF) and set the altitude select to 4,000 feet. I selected NAV and VNAV and the aircraft began its descent at a 3.0 degree top of descent point. At approximately 5,200 feet (800 below our original assigned altitude) ATC Controller asked if we had the field in sight and told us we had not been cleared for the visual approach yet and that we were currently below his MVA. We told the Controller we were in visual conditions and had the airport in sight. The Controller cleared us for the visual approach and we landed without event. Never during the descent of approach was terrain separation lost or did we ever receive a GPWS warning. This was a normal visual approach with the exception that we did not have an ATC clearance to descend.
I need to listen better to what is actually said versus what we expect to hear. It is extremely unfortunate that both of us committed the same listening error. A very significant part of the safety of our ATC system is based on both pilots hearing the same thing. This fact is our checks and balances, our barrier to error. I was very aware of our altitude in respect to the approach and the fact that we needed to begin our descent. Our assignment to go direct the field and inquiry if we had the field in sight was at the correct time to start our descent for a normal visual 3.0 degree approach. This fact may have lead me to hear what I wanted to hear. We felt somewhat rushed to make sure we completed the trip on schedule. Synopsis Flight crew reported descending below cleared altitude on approach to LWB when erroneously believed were cleared for a visual approach.
Time / Day Date : 201704 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : MSY.Airport State Reference : LA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 2000 Environment Flight Conditions : IMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : MSY Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Large Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : GPS Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use.STAR : RYTHM Airspace.CIass B : MSY Airspace.Class E : ZHU Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1444102 Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown. Partyl : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck
Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 1479 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1443348 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Confusion Communication Breakdown. Partyl : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly Airspace Violation : All Types Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Speed : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airport Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 We were coming into MSY on the RYTHM arrival, which ties directly to the RNAV 20. Sometime around OYSTY, Approach cleared us to 2000 feet, slowed us to 210, and cleared us for the approach. We were in IMC. We descended to be outside JASPO (the FAF) at 2000. This resulted in us getting down to 2000 prior to 15 NM from MSY (outside the Class B), doing about 210 knots. When we got to RAYOP, Approach said, you are reentering the Class B. Oh. Whoops. Class B excursion. This whole Class B thing has become such an issue that I don't even know what is right anymore. Clearly we were speeding below the lateral limits. However, I was under the impression that the Class B excursions have been occurring during VISUAL approaches, where the pilots are operating on their own recognizance, and descend too soon. In THIS case, we under ATC control, on an instrument approach, and in IMC. The controller gave us a clearance below the floor of the Class B, and at a high speed. I didn't think they were supposed to do that, especially since we were at an ATC assigned speed too high for that position. Are we really supposed to be trapping this type of ATC error too, without the tools to do so. So maybe he did that on purpose, I just don't understand what's going on. And if he did, he did not warn us that we might go out the bottom, and he didn't tell us when we did so. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.]
Synopsis Air carrier flight crew reported transitioning from the MSY RYTHM Arrival to the Runway 20 RNAV at 2,000 feet and were notified reentering Class B . The crew was not aware the aircraft was below Class B at 210 knots in IMC.
Time / Day Date : 201704 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : BWI.Airport State Reference : MD Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B737 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Takeoff Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Function.Flight Crew : First Officer ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1443029 Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.Flight Crew : Captain Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 187 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1443052 Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Time Pressure Human Factors : Communication Breakdown
Communication Breakdown. Partyl : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Flight Crew Were Passengers Involved In Event : N When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 ATIS had winds 040/7 360v150. We were approaching 28 for departure when Tower called traffic on four-mile final, gave us the winds and cleared us for takeoff. I heard the winds, but they didn't register in my consciousness. We took off, and used a lot of the runway. On climb out above 10,000', we asked each other about the winds, and pieced together that they were stronger out of the east than we had realized. We got the new AT IS, which had just changed, and copied winds of 070/10G16. Entering that into the [flight computer], we saw that was 13 knots of tailwind, and out of limits. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis 3737 flight crew reported taking off with a tailwind out of limits after having been given the latest winds by the Tower.
Time / Day Date : 201704 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : LAX.Airport State Reference : CA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 15000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZLA ATC / Advisory.TRACON : SCT Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8737-800 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : GPS Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Climb Route In Use.SID : ORCKAI Airspace.CIass E : ZLA Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1442525 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Confusion Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown. Party2 : ATC Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1442538 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown
Human Factors : Confusion Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Undershoot Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Returned To Clearance Result.FIight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Climbing out of LAX on the ORCKAI departure we were at 14,000 climbing to 15,000 ATC gave us a climb via SID, but maintain 15,000. New ATC said climb via SID. We level at 15,000 ATC told us climb via SID, climb to 23,000 the top alt on the ORCKAI. We climbed to FL230. Climb via SID wanted us to climb to the top alt on the SID. All ATC in the last 20 years have given us climb to 23,000 or an altitude we need to go to. Narrative: 2 To my knowledge no flight deviation occurred on this trip. We were assigned the ORCKAI departure with a limit alt of 15,000 feet. On departure, we were cleared climb via SID except maintain 15,000 feet. While in level flight we were given a frequency change. The FO checked in and read our previous clearance and the controller read back "roger climb via SID". There was no altitude given in the clearance and we thought we were still only cleared to 15000. There were no other restrictions on the SID but the final alt is FL230. At the next fix the controller questioned us about it and we questioned back. He then issued us a clearance to FL230 and the rest of the flight was uneventful. My concern is that we are playing games at the expense of safety. On the way into LAX we were given three descents on the STAR that were "descend via exceptå€\" and on the way out it was two. Neither the FO nor I had a clue that our clearance had changed, and we just want to do it right every time. I think if you have been given a restricted clearance by a controller and another controller wants something different the altitude should be in that next clearance. Synopsis B737 flight crew reported being cleared to climb via the ORCKAI except maintain 15,000 feet. Level at 15,000 feet, the next Controller issued a climb via SID clearance which confused the crew and they remained at 15,000 feet while ATC intended them to climb to the SID top altitude.

Time / Day Date : 201704 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : AEJ.Airport State Reference : CO Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 15400 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZDV Aircraft Operator : Fractional Make Model Name : Light Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Ferry Flight Phase : Descent Airspace.CIass E : ZDV Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Fractional Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1441646 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Fractional Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1441649 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown
Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown. Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Overshoot Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Returned To Clearance Result.Flight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.FIight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airport Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Primary Problem : Environment - Non Weather Related Narrative: 1 During cruise, at our assigned altitude of FL200, Denver ARTCC asked us what type of approach we wanted to execute for landing at AEJ. We requested an RNAV (GPS) approach to Runway 33. ATC cleared us to KANON direct to destination airport. We received a frequency change to 119.85 Denver ARTCC. After establishing communications on the new frequency, we received a clearance to descend to 16,400 feet. I then established visual contact of the arrival airport. While descending through FL 180, ATC informed us that radar contact was lost on our flight. While descending through 17,900 feet, we started having difficulty hearing transmissions from ATC on our radio. We asked for an approach clearance in the blind. Denver ARTCC replied, "You're on a visual approach, why do you need an approach clearance. " I interrupted their reply as to having a visual approach clearance. I set up the automation of the aircraft to commence the approach. During the descent, communications with ATC was very poor. Therefore, we received broken messages with another aircraft on the frequency. We then heard a broken and weak communications between Denver ARTCC and aircraft to relay to us we were 1,000 feet below assigned altitude. I stopped the descent at 15,400 feet and started a climb back to 16,400 feet. At 15,800 feet, we heard another poor transmission between Denver ARTCC and the aircraft, to relay to us that we were cleared for an approach to AEJ. I re-established the aircraft on the RNAV (GPS) approach to runway 33. After landing, we canceled our IFR flight plan by telephone. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis Turbojet flight crew reported encountering communications difficulties with Center while approaching a mountainous terrain airport.
Time / Day Date : 201704 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : MIA.Airport State Reference : FL Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 10000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : MIA Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Airbus 318/319/320/321 Undifferentiated Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Descent Route In Use : Vectors Airspace.CIass E : MIA Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.TRACON : MIA Make Model Name : Any Unknown or Unlisted Aircraft Manufacturer Airspace.CIass E : MIA Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 13000 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1441054 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Workload Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Person : 2
Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1441062 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Workload Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Excursion From Assigned Altitude Detector.Automation : Aircraft TA Detector.Automation : Aircraft RA Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.HorizontaI : 1500 Miss Distance.VerticaI : 400 When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 I was the flying Pilot on descent below 10,000 feet being vectored for approach to 08L into MIA. We had initially planned and briefed landing runway 09 however we were assigned runway 08L due to an emergency on runway 09. Me and the captain were discussing which type of approach to use. I was flying while the captain was heads down setting up the approach in the FMS. Initially we received a T A. The captain instructed to me to start turning left. I used heading select and turned the airplane about 25 degrees to the left of our current course. As we started to turn we then got an RA "climb". I disconnected the autopilot and started climbing. At that point the captain took over the airplane and I started looking at my one o'clock for the traffic. We then received a climb now RA. I kept looking and finally saw the other traffic pass right underneath us at our 1 to 2 0'clock. I would say he was less than 1,500 feet laterally and 300 to 400 feet below vertically! I was really shocked at how close he was. If it was any closer I would say it was a near midair collision. The captain never saw the traffic as he was busy managing the RA maneuver. Narrative: 2
We were level at 6000 feet approximately 21 miles east of MIA. ATC was providing us with radar vectors from Miami approach to runway 08R at MIA. We received a TCAS, TA at 12 o'clock and 8 miles indicating traffic 400 feet below us. I requested that the First Officer (flying pilot) turn 30 degrees left to avoid oncoming traffic. At the time ATC was dealing with an unexpected runway closure at MIA and the radio frequency was completely saturated. A moment later we received an R.A. with traffic 400 feet below us and I mile away. The First Officer disconnected the autopilot and started to climb but did not verbalize the TCAS maneuver. I recognized that a more aggressive response was needed to keep us clear of the conflict. I assumed control of the aircraft stating "my aircraft autopilot off FD's off". I followed the PFD TCAS command until the TCAS indicated that we were clear of the conflict. We leveled off at 7800 feet. I returned control of the aircraft to the First Officer. We reported the TCAS event to ATC. ATC apologized for the conflict and we were provided radar vectors to runway 08R at MIA. With positive ATC control by MIA approach 20 miles west of MIA at 6000 feet, an unexpected last minute runway closure at MIA caused ATC overload. It increased everyone's task loading and raised our situational awareness as well. Always promptly respond to and follow TCAS alerts using SOPs. Ultimately the responsibility of air traffic separation rests with the pilots. Synopsis Air Carrier flight crew reported receiving an RA for nearby traffic while ATC was handling an emergency at their destination.
Time / Day Date : 201704 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : MDW.Airport State Reference : IL Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 4000 Environment Flight Conditions : IMC Light : Daylight Ceiling.Single Value : 2500 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : C90 Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B737 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Approach Airspace.Class B : MDW Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.TRACON : C90 Make Model Name : Any Unknown or Unlisted Aircraft Manufacturer Flight Phase : Initial Approach Airspace.CIass B : MDW Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 139 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1438369 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Person : 2
Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 168 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1438360 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Airborne Conflict Detector.Automation : Aircraft TA Detector.Automation : Aircraft RA When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 While being vectored for the ILS Approach 4R from the east we were issued a heading of 270 (configuration was flaps 5, 170 knots and 4000'). On that vector it became apparent as we approached the final approach course that ATC had lost track of us and that we needed a turn to the southwest as other proceeding aircraft had been given or we were going to converge with the other aircraft already on and cleared for the approach. Due to traffic and radio saturation we were unable to communicate with ATC and query them about the impending traffic conflict. As we approached the final approach course somewhere around the CADON fix point we received a TCAS Traffic Alert for the aircraft on the approach at our altitude and it became apparent that we would converge into that aircraft if we did not take some action so we started a turn to the southwest. About that same time a new voice came on the radio with instructions to turn left, followed by fly heading 310. As we turned back toward a 310 heading we received a Climb RA at which time we executed the RA maneuver notified ATC and climbed up to 4800' and received the clear of conflict. We were then vectored for the approach and subsequent landing. It appeared the Controller became overwhelmed or was in training (new voice-maybe Supervisor took over). I don't know what kind of safeguards or training they have in place to prevent such events. I believe our situational awareness was high as we were well aware of the events unfolding and prepared to take the appropriate action. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional inforr•nation.]
Synopsis 3737 flight crew reported climbing in response to an RA on approach to MDW. Crew cited frequency congestion and possible ATC Controller training as contributing factor.
Time / Day Date : 201704 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : SFO.Airport State Reference : CA Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : SFO Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Large Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Takeoff Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 3599 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 100 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 1160 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1437486 Human Factors : Time Pressure Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification. Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP)
Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 11583 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 150 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 6489 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1437784 Human Factors : Other / Unknown Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Person : 3 Reference : 3 Location Of Person.Facility : SFO.Tower Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Local Function.Air Traffic Control : Instructor Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1438333 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown. Partyl : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Detector.Automation : Air Traffic Control Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Rejected Takeoff Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airport Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 : 10.5 We arrived at the airplane approximately 45 minutes before departure. Preflight was normal, and I set up the FMC and got performance for IL, per our flight plan. We didn't get the clearance as normal, instead got a message to the effect that we needed to contact clearance manually due to the closed runway, 28L. I called and was asked if we could accept IR instead of 28R; 28R was not what we had planned, and since IR was longer, we accepted that. We reprogrammed the FMC and got performance for IR. As we were getting ready for push, we got a message from the station manager asking when we were going to push and what the delay was. After pushing the Captain replied to it. We taxied out to IR, and switched to Tower at the sign where A taxiway curves toward the runway. We were behind small jet whose pilot had some slight difficulty with the clearances. I believe the controller gave him each clearance 2-3 times. After he took off, we were cleared to line up and wait IR and did so. The previous aircraft was told to contact departure. He didn't switch frequencies, and tower gave him the frequency again and switched him. As we were holding in position the controller gave us a new departure
frequency, (which was the same as the charted one we had set in the radios?), which I acknowledged. Then the aircraft that took off in front of us reported airborne back to tower, and she told him to go to departure, then gave him the frequency. She then gave us a clearance to fly runway heading up to 10,000, which we apparently heard as a takeoff clearance. The captain turned on the lights, I started my clock, and we commenced the takeoff roll. At approximately 80 knots a different controller told us to cancel our takeoff clearance and we rejected the takeoff. I made a PA to remain seated, and got out the rejected takeoff checklist. As we stopped the tower told us to taxi right on F, which was just ahead, and we did. Tower gave us a clearance to taxi back to I R, but we said we needed to finish our checklists and would get back to him. We finished the rejected takeoff checklist, and the captain talked to the flight attendants to let them know it wasn't an issue with the aircraft, it was a traffic issue, and he would be back with them. He also made an announcement to the passengers. I went to the brake cooling table. We also shut down the right engine. We believed the RTO may have engaged, and called maintenance to let them know what happened. They asked for data on speed at abort, which we believed was 80 knots, whether it was manual or RTO braking, weight, and brake temp indicator numbers. They eventually came back with the information that we were good for a subsequent takeoff with no further action, per SFO maintenance. While talking to maintenance, the tower called and asked us to call them due to a possible pilot deviation. The captain took down the number and called, during which he was told the tapes showed we did not receive a takeoff clearance. Also in that time period dispatch contacted us and we updated them on what happened, and what maintenance said. We restarted the right engine, talked to the flight attendants, made sure everyone was down, and departed IR. The rest of the flight was normal, and we arrived at the gate 22 minutes late. During the flight Customer Service sent a message to have the flight attendants make an announcement apologizing to the people and offering them something from the website. I honestly was stunned to find out what we did, I realized it was a loss of separation after we rejected, but had no idea that we had taken off without a clearance until the tower told the captain. I feel sick thinking about it, and have been trying to figure out how it happened. Some thoughts below, that will hopefully help prevent it in the future. We arrived at the aircraft at our scheduled time, after a downtown layover. The schedules call for 45 minutes show time if it is not the first leg and is not an international flight. I personally think that makes things rushed if it is a Pacific flight, because of the extra prep that is just like an international flight. Maybe it had no effect, but it puts you in a hurry up state of mind. Just food for thought. I usually go a little early when it is an airport layover and I can take the van of my choosing. Redoing things and calling clearance manually, again, not a big deal, but it just added to the time crunch. As a reminder, station ops sent us a message asking when we were pushing. When we got to the runway, the controller was busy as usual, but now had only one west runway. Normally SFO is busy enough sandwiching the north departures in with the west departures and arrivals, but this makes it harder. You are in the mindset of no delay, they clear you and you go quickly because you know what they are dealing with getting aircraft off before the next arrival or departure on the crossing runway. Then the aircraft in front of us had 3 calls, I believe, for line up and wait, and 2 more after takeoff. I think I missed one as well, which all added to the controller's workload. When we were sitting on the runway, all set for takeoff, we were given a frequency that was what we already had. The
norm seems to be given as "contact departure 135.1, cleared for takeoff'. After that we were given runway heading cleared to 10000, which, again, is usually accompanied by cleared for takeoff. Maybe it was given separately because that's when the controller had time, not sure. I'm sure it's not prohibited to do so, but I believe it would be safer to stay with the norm, as that is what we most often hear. You don't normally get instructions twice while holding in position ready to go, but if you do, maybe it should start with 'hold for takeoff', followed by the instructions. It's not an excuse, if we started to takeoff without a clearance, it's a huge error. I believe that part of it is due to the fact that we were 'spring loaded' for takeoff, and heard what we expected, which was not what was said. I cannot be sorrier for my part in compromising safety, this is going to haunt me for a long time. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Narrative: 3 Flight Crew loaded runway IR and was told by developmental that I was training to fly runway heading and maintain 10000. I reminded developmental to also tell aircraft to hold in position which she did transmit but aircraft did not read it back. Developmental was calling other aircraft when I noticed that the crew had begun their takeoff roll without a clearance. I instructed them to cancel takeoff clearance as they were coming up to taxiway golf. They acknowledged the instructions and exited at taxiway Fl. ASSC (Airport Surface Surveillance Capability) alarmed after I had canceled the clearance. Aircraft was landing and rolling out on Runway 28R when the flight began its departure roll. I would ensure readback of hold in position instructions. I would remind pilots that unless they hear "cleared for takeoff' that they should not begin departure roll. Synopsis Air carrier flight crew and SFO Controller reported an attempted takeoff without clearance. The Controller canceled the takeoff clearance due to traffic landing on an intersecting runway.
Time / Day Date : 201704 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ORD.Airport State Reference : IL Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Ground : ORD Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Large Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Taxi Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 200 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 8898 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1437479 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Confusion Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : First Officer
Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 470 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1437158 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Confusion Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Other / Unknown Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : Taxi Result.Flight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.FIight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Flight Crew : FLC complied w / Automation / Advisory Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airport Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 We checked in with ORD metering at the north port on the Bravo line. We were told to contact ground. When we did we were abruptly told to contact metering again. As we were about to switch frequencies the controller said never mind and ripped off a clearance faster than an auctioneer. Neither the copilot nor I heard the route and asked her to repeat the clearance and in an annoyed tone reread the clearance to Runway IOL Delta Delta turn right on Hotel Uniform Alpha Alpha 15 November cross runway 33. When on Uniform we were given new instructions Alpha 10 November (which isn't possible) with no clearance limit and we read it back. As we turned onto Bravo the controller in an elevated voice and negative tone said "I don't want you on Bravo I want you on Alpha. Taxi Bravo Alpha 17 Alpha" again with no clearance limit. I got on the radio and informed her we read our clearance onto Bravo back to them. The controller replied something to the effect of "well you need to read your call sign back". I then asked the controller to mark the tapes and that we would be filing a report. The controller then gave another revised clearance of Alpha Alpha 13 November 2 November, AGAIN with no clearance limit. I told the FO to read back the clearance and add "Hold short of 33". I queried the controller on the clearance limit and the controller replied "absent of clearance to cross you have to hold short". The controller was so combative in their aggressive tone that once back on Alpha I stopped the aircraft and asked for progressive taxi instructions. After being based in ORD for 21 years I have never had such a rude combative nonstandard controller at ORD. The Controller said they were too busy to give progressive
and would have to hold me. So we continued with trying to get safe legal complete taxi instructions from her. The Controller then gave another revised taxi clearance to a company flight (not our flight number) to taxi Alpha Alpha 15 November yet again without a clearance limit and again I asked the FO to read back "Hold Short Runway 33" in addition to the clearance. We also asked for a phone number to call later. Once committed to the left turn onto Alpha 15 the controller told us to give way to Delta on November. The Controller then gave us, you guessed it, yet another revised clearance to turn 160 degrees out of Alpha 15 back onto Alpha Alpha 13 November 2 November, again no clearance limit. Once committed to the turn into Alpha 13 again we were told to give way to another aircraft on Bravo. As we were executing the S turn through Alpha 13 November 2 the controller asked if we wanted to pull over into a hold pad to call the tower. Really? Once onto November we were cleared to cross 33 and contact tower. This was the single worst, most nebulous, nonstandard taxi experience anywhere anytime in my 35 year aviation career. I called the tower supervisor after landing to report the event and notify them a report would be filed. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis Air carrier flight crew reported conflicting, confusing and combative taxi instructions from ORD ground controller.
Time / Day Date : 201704 Local Time Of Day : 0001-0600 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZLA.ARTCC State Reference : CA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 24000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZLA Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Airbus Industrie Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Descent Route In Use.STAR : HLYWDI Airspace.CIass A : ZLA Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Facility : ZLA.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Enroute Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1436400 : Communication Breakdown Confusion : Human-Machine Interface : Situational Awareness Human Factors Human Factors : Human Factors Human Factors : Workload Human Factors Human Factors : Distraction Breakdown. Partyl Communication Breakdown. Party2 Communication Person : 2 Reference : 2 : Flight Crew Location Of Person.Facility : ZLA.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Enroute Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1436401 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Confusion
Human Factors Human Factors Human Factors Human Factors : Human-Machine Interface : Situational Awareness : Workload : Distraction Communication Breakdown.PartyI : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Crossing Restriction Not Met Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Returned To Clearance Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Equipment / Tooling Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Equipment / Tooling Narrative: 1 This is more a safety problem than a safety event, but an event also occurred because of the safety problem. Aircraft X was in level flight at FL 240, and was issued a clearance to descend via the HLYWDI arrival. The aircraft was well before the BRUEN altitude window at 240B300, but the pilot reported leaving FL240. The controller immediately caught the read back, told the pilot to maintain FL 240, and I was told that Mode-C did not indicate the aircraft leaving FL240. The aircraft was issued the Brasher Warning by me on the next sector's frequency (I was working the low altitude sector at the time of the incident), and upon landing at LAX, the pilot and co-pilot called me as requested. The pilots didn't really have much useful information to add. As a general trend, we have noticed that this same situation has been happening very regularly with [Airline name removed]. While this incident did not result in the aircraft busting its assigned altitude, the majority of these situations do result in altitude deviations. Being dissatisfied with the answers I was receiving from the pilots, I contacted the [Airline] Chief Pilot on Duty for the area. I had a very good and long conversation regarding what took place and why. The [Chief Pilot] explained that in Airbus aircraft, when the aircraft is in level flight (Cruise Phase according to a [specific aircraft type] systems, at FL240, for example, the altitude constraint of 240B300 would be deleted from the onboard computer, unless the aircraft climbed to a higher cruise altitude, i.e. FL 280 or 300. It is up to the pilots to verify the altitude restrictions manually per the physical/electronic charts. The PFD and MCDU delete the upcoming altitude restraint, and
any subsequent altitude restraints unless the window is lower than the present cruise altitude of the aircraft. [Airline] Company Policy dictates that each pilot must independently verify the altitude windows prior to descending the aircraft. That obviously did not happen in this event, and was definitely pilot error, however, what a completely stupid and useless system that deletes the altitude constraints in this fashion. [Chief Pilot] noted that the same thing would happen, for example, even on longer routes, where a pilot departing ZZZ might choose a lower altitude because of reported turbulence, etc. They might fly across the entire country at a lower altitude, and accordingly, the upcoming constraints (potentially all the way across the country in ZLA airspace) would be deleted. How can it be acceptable for an aircraft to simply delete applicable altitude constraints on an arrival? Human error is going to take place. We all know that. The two pilots on Aircraft X both independently missed the altitude constraints, and to be perfectly honest, it's a very easy thing to miss when you are in the descent phase of flight and have a lot of things going on in the cockpit. This time, there was no loss of separation (or life), but this should absolutely be corrected, as the potential for error and loss of separation is extremely high. Fix the Airbus computers so what they are doing makes sense. It's completely idiotic for the computer to delete pertinent altitude restrictions, even more so for an aircraft that loves flying itself with minimal/no pilot intervention. Narrative: 2 I was working R39 and was sequencing for LAX. Aircraft X was a PHX departure and was in level flight at FL240. I cleared them to HLYWD and issued a descend via clearance. The aircraft was in level flight at FL240 and the restriction after HLYWD is BRUE-N between FL240-300. I assumed the aircraft would maintain FL240 until BRUEN. About one minute after I issued the descend via clearance the aircraft checked out of their altitude to which I immediately climbed them back up and pointed them out to the low altitude sector. When the aircraft called in to the supervisor we learned that if they are in level flight and a descend via clearance is issued the Airbus navigational equipment disregards all crossing restrictions at and above the current altitude. Synopsis Los Angeles Center Controller reported an aircraft did not make the crossing restrictions after being cleared to descend via because of an ongoing aircraft type computer problem.
Time / Day Date : 201703 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : MDW.Airport State Reference : IL Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 3000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : MDW ATC / Advisory.TRACON : C90 Make Model Name : Citation 11 S2/Bravo (C550) Flight Plan : IFR Flight Phase : Initial Climb Route In Use : Vectors Airspace.CIass B : ORD Airspace.CIass C : MDW Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.FaciIity : MDW.Tower Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Local Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control.Time Certified In Pos 1 (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1435478 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Distraction Communication Breakdown. Partyl : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person. Facility : C90.TRACON Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Departure Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Developmental Experience.Air Traffic Control.Time Certified In Pos 1 (yrs) Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos 1 (mon) : 10 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1435497 Communication Breakdown Human Factors : : Human-Machine Interface Human Factors Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Distraction Breakdown.Party1 : ATC Communication
Communication Breakdown.Party2 Communication Breakdown. Party2 Events : Flight Crew : ATC Anomaly.Airspace Violation : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Track / Heading : All Types Anomaly Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 Aircraft X was issued takeoff clearance with a right turn to 090 degrees. The pilot read back those exact instructions. Upon seeing the aircraft still on runway heading, not commencing the right turn, I repeated the 090 heading and told the pilot to contact departure control. The pilot read back my clearance verbatim. After a few go-arounds, I received a call from departure control to transfer communications of Aircraft X. I knew I did, but tried again to no avail. I called back departure control and told them that I could not raise Aircraft X. Aircraft X was east bound, but far enough to the north that they may have infringed on airspace protecting the Willis and Hancock Towers downtown Chicago. I was informed later in my shift that Aircraft X may have had an airspace/obstruction violation. It appeared that Aircraft X had not initiated the right turn when instructed. The only recommendation that I have is that Pilots comply with ATC clearances when they are issued. If they are unable to do so, advise. If Aircraft X needed more altitude or time for the turn, the pilot needed to inform me. I issued the turn when I did because I knew that aircraft would be clear of that obstruction airspace. Even when I re-issued the turn I was confident the aircraft would have been clear of the airspace. Instead, the pilot turned when they desired and left the frequency, not switching to the assigned frequency causing confusion. Narrative: 2 I was giving up the position to another controller. Aircraft X departed MDW and climbed via the SID to 030 on a 090 heading. I went over the traffic and gave the position up. Aircraft X had not checked on and was flying directly toward the Willis Tower a 3300 MVA area. The controller that relieved me called MDW local and asked them to try the aircraft again and climb them to 033 to get them above the MVA. MDW stated that they did not have the aircraft. The other MDW controllers tried the aircraft on their frequencies and the aircraft was tried on guard numerous times. The aircraft flew within .5 miles of the actual tower at 030. This was the second aircraft that session that went NORDO on a 090 heading off of MDW pointed directly into the tower MVA. Synopsis MDW Tower and C90 TRACON Controller reported that an aircraft departed MDW and was instructed to turn and contact Departure. Aircraft did not turn and was not on either frequency.

Time / Day Date : 201703 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : PSP.Airport State Reference : CA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 4300 Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : PSP Make Model Name : Regional Jet 700 ER/LR (CRJ700) Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Final Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.CIass E : SCT Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory. Tower : PSP Make Model Name : Baron 58/58TC Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Flight Phase : Descent Airspace.CIass E : SCT Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.FaciIity : PSP.Tower Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Instructor Function.Air Traffic Control : Local Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1434485 Human Human Human Human Human Human Human Communication Breakdown Factors : Confusion Factors : Factors : Distraction : Human-Machine Interface Factors Factors : Time Pressure Training / Qualification Factors : Workload Factors :
Human Factors : Situational Awareness Communication Breakdown.PartyI : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown. Party2 : ATC Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Facility : PSP.Tower Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Local Function.Air Traffic Control : Trainee Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Developmental ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1434483 Communication Breakdown Human Factors : : Confusion Human Factors Human Factors : Distraction : Human-Machine Interface Human Factors Human Factors : Time Pressure : Training / Qualification Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors Breakdown.Party1 : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Communication Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 Human Factors Procedure I was training on LCI. We had been training approximately 25 minutes. Southern California TRACON (SCT) transferred communications of Aircraft X. SCT is supposed to transfer communications of an aircraft per our LOA with them between 6-12 flying miles. Aircraft X checked on while 15 miles ENE of the airport at roughly 5000 feet MSL on a visual approach to RWY 31L with roughly 19 flying miles to go. [Developmental] issued landing clearance on initial call up. When Aircraft X was about 8 miles east of the airport, southwest-bound, the SCT controller called via the shout-line and tells us "Call traffic to Aircraft X, reference my traffic, he's stopped at 4." I see traffic, a BE58 (Aircraft Y) descending over the Class Delta southeast-bound at roughly 4200 about 5 miles west of Aircraft X, and realize that must be the traffic SCT is referring to. [Developmental] realizes the same thing. [Developmental] issues the traffic, "Aircraft X, traffic 12 0'clock, 5 miles, southeast bound, a Kingair, below you stopped at 4." (C Developmental] incorrectly interpreted the traffic as a Kingair). This was a miscommunication between SCT, [Developmental], and Aircraft X. SCT should have said, restricted at or above 4000.
[Developmental] should have given an altitude of the traffic, and also stated to Aircraft X that the traffic was restricted at or above 4000. Aircraft X interpreted the traffic as being restricted at or below 4000. Aircraft X responds by saying they will stop at 4000. While Aircraft X is telling us this, SCT calls on the shout-line again and tells us their traffic (Aircraft Y) has Aircraft X in sight. [Developmental] tells Aircraft X that the traffic has them in sight and is maintaining visual separation. [Developmental] and I view Aircraft X's tag to assure he is continuing his descent. We see him descend to 3900 and then 3800 on another sweep. I interpret this observation as a sign that Aircraft X is now descending below 4000. At this point, the aircraft are two miles apart, with Aircraft X at 3800 and Aircraft Y at 4000. As Aircraft X gets closer to the BE58, I see Aircraft Y descending below 4000 and all of a sudden watch Aircraft X climbing above 4300 and continuing a climb. I realize they must be responding to an RA. [Developmental] calls traffic to Aircraft X once more, and they report the traffic in sight while climbing. A few seconds later, [Developmental] tells Aircraft X "Traffic no factor". After maneuvering for descent, Aircraft X landed without any further incident. It was found the two aircraft were as close as 0.91 miles from each other with 400 feet vertical separation (Aircraft X at 4300, Aircraft Y at 3900). TO prevent the re-occurrence of this event: I. Existing procedures should be followed. All conflicts must be resolved before clearing an aircraft for a visual approach. This failed to be adhered to. 2. Existing LOAs should be followed. Transfer of communication of IFR arrivals to Palm Springs should occur between 6-12 flying miles of the airport. This failed to be adhered to. 3. Phraseology of point outs and inter-phone communication was poorly executed. Through all the shout-line communication, we were never able to respond to SCT because we were busy calling traffic for Aircraft X and other traffic. Additionally the BE58 was not initially referenced, and traffic location was never referenced. 4. [Developmental] is a developmental with a history and long lasting problem in training to where [there is] difficulty expressing to the pilots what is going on, and what [needs to be done]. This problem is phraseology based, but also a problem with a difficulty on [Developmental's] part to describe a situation to someone. Narrative: 2 I was the developmental on Local. SOCAL transferred communications early of Aircraft X, Aircraft X checks on with me 14.5 miles NE of PSP. I cleared Aircraft X to land on initial call up. SOCAL calls approximately one minute later and asks for me to give traffic on the BE58 (Aircraft Y) to Aircraft X and SOCAL tells me the BE58 is stopped at 4000. At this time, Aircraft X is descending through 4000, while the BE58 has descended to 4000. I immediately give Aircraft X the traffic and let them know the traffic is restricted below them at 4000. Aircraft X responds with, we'll stop at 4000. SOCAL calls back and tells me the BE58 traffic has Aircraft X in sight. I go back to Aircraft X and tell them the BE58 traffic has them in sight and will maintain visual separation from them. Aircraft X responds with roger. I watch Aircraft X to ensure they are continuing their descent and it appears they are. A moment later, it appears they started to climb up and I give an additional traffic call and Aircraft X responds with traffic in sight. At this time the traffic is no longer a factor and Aircraft X has climbed due to the RA.
I believe this event occurred because the controller at SOCAL did not see this potential conflict. Also, the BE58 is on the radar scope at least 10 miles NW of PSP, SE bound at 5300 descending above the airspace, and was not pointed out. The Controller at SOCAL should have followed the LOA. First, resolving all potential conflicts before transferring communications and transferring communications within 8-12 flying miles of the airport. In this specific case after it was already done, she should have stopped the descent sooner on the BE58 or at least turned the aircraft left to go behind above and behind the Aircraft x. Synopsis PSP Local Instructor and Developmental both reported of an unsafe situation where SCT TRACON did not follow correct procedures which led to a loss of separation between two aircraft.
