Report Set Description. Update Number.. Date of Update ........................ Number of Records in Report Set................ Number ofNew Records in Report Set ...............50 Type of Records in Report Set.. ASRS Database Report Set Runway Incursions .........A sampling of reports from all aviation arenas referencing runway incursions. .....33.0 .March 31, 2018 ............For each update, new records received at ASRS will displace a like number of the oldest records in the Report Set, with the objective of providing the fifty most recent relevant ASRS Database records. Records within this Report Set have been screened to assure then- relevance to the topic.
National Aeronautics and Space Administration Ames Research Center Moffett Field, CA 94035-1000 TH: 262-7 MEMORANDUM FOR: Recipients of Aviation Safety Reporting System Data SUBJECT: Data Derived from ASRS Reports The attached material is furnished pursuant to a request for data from the NASA Aviation Safety Reporting System (ASRS). Recipients of this material are reminded when evaluating these data of the following points. ASRS reports are submitted voluntarily. The existence in the ASRS database of reports concerning a specific topic cannot, therefore, be used to infer the prevalence of that problem within the National Airspace System. Information contained in reports submitted to ASRS may be amplified by further contact with the individual who submitted them, but the information provided by the reporter is not investigated further. Such information represents the perspective of the specific individual who is describing their experience and perception of a safety related event. After preliminary processing, all ASRS reports are de-identified and the identity of the individual who submitted the report is permanently eliminated. All ASRS report processing systems are designed to protect identifying information submitted by reporters; including names, company affiliations, and specific times of incident occurrence. After a report has been de-identified, any verification of information submitted to ASRS would be limited. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration and its ASRS current contractor, Booz Allen Hamilton, specifically disclaim any responsibility for any interpretation which may be made by others of any material or data furnished by NASA in response to queries of the ASRS database and related materials. Linda J. Connell, Director NASA Aviation Safety Reporting System
CAVEAT REGARDING USE OF ASRS DATA Certain caveats apply to the use of ASRS data. All ASRS reports are voluntarily submitted, and thus cannot be considered a measured random sample of the full population of like events. For example, we receive several thousand altitude deviation reports each year. This number may comprise over half of all the altitude deviations that occur, or it may be just a small fraction of total occurrences. Moreover, not all pilots, controllers, mechanics, flight attendants, dispatchers or other participants in the aviation system are equally aware of the ASRS or may be equally willing to report. Thus, the data can reflect reporting biases. These biases, which are not fully known or measurable, may influence ASRS information. A safety problem such as near midair collisions (NMACs) may appear to be more highly concentrated in area "A" than area "B" simply because the airmen who operate in area "A" are more aware of the ASRS program and more inclined to report should an NMAC occur. Any type of subjective, voluntary reporting will have these limitations related to quantitative statistical analysis. One thing that can be Imown from ASRS data is that the number of reports received concerning specific event types represents the lower measure of the true number of such events that are occurring. For example, if ASRS receives 881 reports of track deviations in 2010 (this number is purely hypothetical), then it can be known with some certainty that at least 881 such events have occurred in 2010. With these statistical limitations m mind, we believe that the real power of ASRS data is the qualitative information contained in report narratives. The pilots, controllers, and others who report tell us about aviation safety incidents and situations in detail — explaining what happened, and more importantly, why it happened. Using report narratives effectively requires an extra measure of study, but the knowledge derived is well worth the added effort.
Report Synopses
ACN:1515017 (lof50) Synopsis 3737 flight crew reported they were advised by Ground they had not cleared the runway when they turned off, but they could not pull any further forward because another aircraft blocked their way. ACN: 1512201 (20f50) Synopsis 3737 flight crew reported a Tower Controller issued a runway crossing clearance while a departing aircraft was on takeoff roll. Tower Controller canceled the clearance after recognizing the conflict. ACN: 1510771 (30f50) Synopsis GA pilot reported a ground conflict during takeoff due to a snow plow that was still on the runway. ACN: 1508283 (40f50) Synopsis Alarus CH2000 pilot reported a runway incursion after another aircraft that was on the wrong frequency, landed opposite direction. ACN: 1504703 (50f50) Synopsis PA-28 flight instructor reported holding at the end of the runway while another pilot landed due to lack of a taxiway at the non-towered airport. ACN:1502916 (60f50) Synopsis ATC Tower Ground Controller reported an aircraft passed the hold short lines as an arriving aircraft was on short final. The Controller added the tower is not high enough to effectively view the taxiways and ramp areas. ACN:1499038 (70f50) Synopsis A Tower Controller reported the Ground Controller allowed an aircraft to enter a runway at the same time another aircraft was landing. ACN:1499011 (80f50)
Synopsis PC 12 flight crew reported being unable to make the turnoff that ATC was planning, resulting in cancellation of takeoff clearance for a B737 in position on the crossing runway. ACN: 1494774 (90f50) Synopsis C172 pilot reported a ground conflict after beginning the takeoff roll at a non-towered airport. ACN: 1494500 (100f50) Synopsis Bonanza 36 pilots reported that after landing, they had to make a sudden stop due to an aircraft taking off on a crossing runway. ACN: 1493529 (11 Synopsis BJC Tower Controller reported that after issuing instructions to an aircraft on pattern traffic and receiving the correct read-back instructions, the pilot aligned on final to the opposite runway. ACN: 1492339 (120f50) Synopsis Vehicle driver reported unknowing entering and stopping a vehicle on the runway while an aircraft was preparing to takeoff. ACN: 1491717 (130f50) Synopsis GA flight instructor reported another aircraft entered the runway without CTAF announcement, causing a ground conflict. ACN: 1490963 (140f50) Synopsis CRQ Tower Controller reported an aircraft they cleared for takeoff was at the opposite end of the runway then they thought it was with traffic opposite direction on short final. ACN: 1490121 (150f50) Synopsis
Air carrier flight crew reported after landing on Runway 9 at MYNN, they exited at Taxiway B and crossed the hold line for Runway 14 while trying to determine if they were clear of Runway 9. ACN•. 1489494 (160f50) Synopsis Tower Controller reported a runway incursion after instructing an aircraft to standby. ACN: 1489251 (170f50) Synopsis HOU Tower Controller and flight crew reported the Controller cleared them to cross a runway at the same time a departure was beginning its takeoff roll. ACN: 1488865 (180f50) Synopsis GA pilot reported aggressive aborted takeoff when alerted by ATC, as another aircraft taxied onto the runway. ACN•. 1487721 (190f50) Synopsis MEM Tower Local Controller reported they had to issue last minute instructions to separate an arriving aircraft which initiated a go-around just as a departure was airborne. ACN: 1487536 Synopsis 3737 Captain reported that after landing, they were still taxiing on the runway when another aircraft was given clearance for takeoff. ACN: 1485995 (21 Synopsis Tower Controllers and a landing pilot reported another aircraft ignored instructions to cancel takeoff clearance and departed over the landing aircraft still on the runway. ACN: 1485649 Synopsis Piper PA-28 instructor reported they were on an extended downwind when another small airplane cut under them nearly causing a midair collision. ACN: 1485353 (23 of50)
Synopsis TOA Tower Controller and GA pilot reported an aircraft possibly landed with an opposite direction traffic rolling on the runway. ACN: 1484702 (240f50) Synopsis BE35 pilot on landing roll reported a ground conflict with opposite direction traffic on the takeoff roll at MLE. ACN: 1483591 (250f50) Synopsis A Tower Ground Controller and flight crew reported an aircraft missed a turn while taxiing and entered the runway approach safety area with an arriving aircraft on short final. ACN: 1481256 (260f50) Synopsis ARR Tower Supervisor and a flight instructor reported that the student pilot took Off after having only been cleared to line up and wait. ACN: 1480969 (270f50) Synopsis LVK Tower Controllers and a pilot reported an aircraft began its takeoff roll from a taxiway instead of the runway and when aborting its takeoff taxied without a clearance five feet away from another taxiing aircraft. ACN: 1480648 (28 of50) Synopsis Flight instructor reported a Cirrus performed a non-standard arrival into a busy non- towered airport while back-taxi operations were active, creating an unsafe situation. ACN: 1480457 Synopsis MKE Tower Controller reported a vehicle requested to cross a runway, Controller responded with roger, the vehicle moved across the runway which caused an aircraft on the runway to abort their takeoff. ACN: 1480234 (300f50) Synopsis
3737-700 flight crew reported turning onto an active runway after landing due to concern that traffic close behind. ACN: 1480225 (31 of50) Synopsis Arriving and departing air carrier flight crews reported a runway incursion at LAX which resulted in a rejected takeoff. ACN: 1479395 (320f50) Synopsis BWI Tower Controller reported allowing an aircraft to land while vehicles were on the runway. ACN: 1477638 (330f50) Synopsis Flight Crew reported being uncertain of the taxi instructions from ground control, causing them to cross a hold short line of an active runway. ACN•. 1475896 (340f50) Synopsis Air carrier Captain reported distraction while being issued a revised clearance while taxiing. Ground Control provided clearance to cross a runway, but the aircraft was past the hold short lines. ACN: 1475056 (350f50) Synopsis C172 pilot reported being told by Tower that they had crossed a hold short line. The reporter does not believe he crossed the line. ACN•. 1474497 (360f50) Synopsis SYR Tower Controller reported a runway incursion due to the MQ-9 UAV taxiing too slow and an arrival landing on the runway while the drone was still exiting. ACN•. 1474435 (370f50) Synopsis SR20 flight instructor reported that another aircraft pulled onto the runway while they were on short final.
ACN:1473223 (38 of50) Synopsis Medford Local Controller reported that an aircraft was touching down on a closed runway and was sent around to avoid men and equipment. ACN: 1473221 (390f50) Synopsis A flight crew and Ground Controller reported the Ground Controller taxied them across an active runway that another aircraft was beginning its takeoff roll on. ACN:1472970 (400f50) Synopsis While a controller change was happening, the Local Controller reported crossing two aircraft and did not observe a departing aircraft on the runway. The ERJ170 Captain reported they did not move because they saw the departing aircraft. ACN:1472489 (41 of50) Synopsis LGB Tower Controller reported two losses of separation by the same Local Controller, who in the reporters mind knew the correct procedure, but did not apply it. ACN:1472174 (420f50) Synopsis HPN controllers reported an unsafe operation when a landing aircraft was asked to hold short of an intersecting runway and could not resulting in a ground conflict. ACN: 1471749 (430f50) Synopsis An Air Carrier Captain reported that while on short final, a helicopter was observed sitting on the end of the same runway. The conflict was resolved in time for the aircraft to land safely. ACN:1471141 (440f50) Synopsis A320 Captain reported being issued taxi instructions to follow another aircraft and following the aircraft onto a runway to cross, but that was not ATC's intention. ACN: 1470159 (450f50)
Synopsis PSP Tower Controller reported not noticing an aircraft land on the wrong runway which had a vehicle on it until the vehicle operator queried the Controller about the aircraft. ACN: 1469857 (460f50) Synopsis MYR Tower Controller reported an unsafe situation when noticing an aircraft on final after clearing an aircraft for takeoff. ACN: 1467660 (470f50) Synopsis Two ZID Center Controllers reported that an aircraft had been issued an IFR clearance that was supposed to hold for departure, but departed into traffic landing opposite direction. ACN: 1467288 (48 of50) Synopsis IAD Tower Controller reported that a flight crew missed the taxiway turnoff, turned around to exit, causing aircraft on final to be sent around. Instruction was too late and aircraft landed on occupied runway. ACN: 1466234 (490f50) Synopsis A T RACON Controller reported that aircraft were supposed to depart in one direction, but ended up departing in the opposite direction. ACN: 1466180 (500f50) Synopsis PA34 pilot reported rejecting takeoff after observing unannounced traffic on short final landing on the opposite direction runway.
Report Narratives
Time / Day Date : 201801 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : SAN.Airport State Reference : CA Altitude.AGL.SingIe Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : 10 Light : Night Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Ground : SAN Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8737-800 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Taxi Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.Ramp : SAN Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : EMB ERJ 170/175 ER/LR Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Taxi Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (AT P) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1515017 Human Factors : Situational Awareness
Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 5200 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 142 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 1200 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1515140 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Ground Conflict, Critical Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Runway Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : Taxi Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Ambiguous Narrative: 1 Airport Human Factors Procedure After landing in SAN and turning off runway, we began a left turn off the runway at B8 toward our gates. (Other carrier) aircraft was being pushed back at nearly the same point. We stopped while the (other carrier) aircraft was being pushed, and Ground told us to turn right as needed to move away from runway. I was unsure if left wingtip/scimitar would clear tail of (other carrier) aircraft and stopped. Ground Controller got antsy about our tail not being clear of runway. When (other carrier) aircraft finally stopped pushing, we cautiously taxied clear. Ground Controller asked us to call after we parked. Modify instructions to aircraft pushing while others are landing or, give landing aircraft runway exit instructions. Narrative: 2 We complied with ground controller direction to the extent that we felt able without risking contact with the aircraft in front of us. Synopsis 3737 flight crew reported they were advised by Ground they had not cleared the runway when they turned off, but they could not pull any further forward because another aircraft blocked their way.
Time / Day Date : 201801 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : PHX.Airport State Reference : AZ Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : PHX Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 3737 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Taxi Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory. Tower : PHX Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B737 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Takeoff Aircraft : 3 Reference : Z ATC / Advisory. Tower : PHX Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B737 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Taxi Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck
Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 2114 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1512201 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown. Partyl : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Experience.Flight Crew. Total : 2479 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1512486 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Conflict : Ground Conflict, Critical Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Runway Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : Taxi Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 After landing on runway 7R in Phoenix, we were told to hold short of 7L. After several minutes, I believed I heard the tower clear Aircraft Y, a B737 for takeoff on runway 7L. Shortly after that, a clearance was given for Aircraft Z, another 8737, to cross 7L. After that, we were given clearance to cross 7L. Having believed I had heard a takeoff clearance for 7L [Aircraft Y], I took extra time to clear for aircraft on departure roll. I noted that Aircraft Y did appear to be on takeoff roll, I held short of the runway at taxiway F8. Aircraft Z crossed [Runway 7L] downfield when the tower controller realized he had given conflicting clearances. Aircraft Y was told to cancel takeoff clearance. We were told to hold short of 7L, which was not a problem. Aircraft Z cleared the active runway, and noted they had gotten red runway incursion lights half way across the runway as they were crossing. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis
3737 flight crew reported a Tower Controller issued a runway crossing clearance while a departing aircraft was on takeoff roll. Tower Controller canceled the clearance after recognizing the conflict.
Time / Day Date : 201801 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : DIK.Airport State Reference : ND Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : IMC Weather Elements / Visibility : Snow Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 1500 Aircraft Reference : X ATC/ Advisory.CTAF : DIK Make Model Name : Light Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Flight Phase : Takeoff Airspace.Class E : MSP Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 5000 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 75 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 1700 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1510771 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Ground Personnel Events Anomaly Conflict : Ground Conflict, Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Runway Detector. Person : Flight Crew
Miss Distance.HorizontaI : 3500 When Detected : In-flight Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I was doing a quick turn into DIK. Snow plow equipment moved out of the way during landing. While taxiing to the ramp, I advised the snow plows that another airplane was landing behind me and that I would be a quick turn. I only had the engines off for 5 minutes before I was ready to go. I called on CTAF that I was leaving the ramp for runway 32 via B and A. The snow plow driver called me and said he saw me and would be clear of the runway by the time I got to the runway. I taxied to and held short of runway 32 and called MSP center for my clearance. After I read back my clearance I called CTAF to advise I was taking runway 32 for departure. I did a normal takeoff. Just after rotation I saw a snow plow at the end of runway 32 turning off the runway. He called on CTAF several seconds later that he was clear of the runway. I'm not sure why he didn't say he was on the runway when I stated that I was departing the runway. I continued with a normal departure without incident. Synopsis GA pilot reported a ground conflict during takeoff due to a snow plow that was still on the runway.
Time / Day Date : 201712 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Alarus CH2000 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Landing Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y 10 Make Model Name : Skyhawk 172/Cutlass 172 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Flight Phase : Landing Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 150 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 2000 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1508283 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew
Events Anomaly Conflict : Ground Conflict, Critical Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Runway Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.Horizontal : O Miss Distance.Vertical : 5 When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I was inbound from the southwest. At 6 miles out I made my initial call on CTAF frequency stating that I was 6 miles southwest, inbound. There were no other transmission on CTAF so I chose to setup for a right base entry for runway XX. My second radio call stated my location using a common visual reference near the airport. I said I'll be entering the right base for runway XX. Descending into the right base on the visual approach and I scanned the area for traffic as well as the airport environment. I saw no other aircraft and there were no other transmissions. I stated I was on the right base for Runway XX, full stop. As soon as I turned final, which was about a 1/2 mile final, I announced over CTAF that I was on final for Runway XX, full stop. My touchdown for landing was about 600 ft beyond the numbers. As soon as I touched down I saw another aircraft on the runway, opposite direction, about halfway down the runway. I applied maximum braking and slowly started veering to the left as I thought if he didn't rotate in time I would have to go off the runway and into the grass to avoid him. I recognized that he began doing the same thing so it seemed that we both saw each other and were both going to the left. When I first saw him I Immediately recognized that he was a high wing airplane so with me being a low wing I knew we don't need to completely clear each other horizontally. We passed each other on the left with his right wing clearing above my right wing. I could see well prior to passing him that our wings would not strike. After passing him I asked over CTAF if he had made any radio calls. A local resident who was watching had a handheld radio and he transmitted that he never heard any radio calls from the Cessna. After clearing the runway the Cessna made his first transmission that he was taxiing back on runway YY. I asked if he could offer an explanation and he apologized and said that they had entered the wrong frequency. I said I understood and at least nobody got hurt. He replied and apologized again and said they were making calls but they were just on the wrong frequency. After I parked my airplane the local resident came over and explained to me that the Cessna wasn't taking off but that he was actually landing, so we both landed at the same time. I don't recall him having a landing light on so he was difficult to see even on the runway. My landing light was on and the witness said my aircraft was very visible due to the light. I considered a go around when I saw him but I decided to apply max braking instead for two reasons. One, I was immediately under the impression the Cessna was taking Off, not landing. If that was the case I was expecting him to be rotating at any second. I did not want to climb into his path if that was going to be the case. Secondly, I knew that if I absolutely had to I could go into the grass to clear the runway. Either way I felt more in control on the ground whether it be on the runway or in the grass.
Synopsis Alarus CH2000 pilot reported a runway incursion after another aircraft that was on the wrong frequency, landed opposite direction.
1-—4-+1: Time / Day Date : 201712 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 12000 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal 10 Make Model Name : PA-28 Cherokee/Archer/Dakota/Pillan/Warrior Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Training Flight Phase : Taxi Airspace.CIass G : ZZZ Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Make Model Name : Any Unknown or Unlisted Aircraft Manufacturer Flight Phase : Landing Airspace.CIass G : ZZZ Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function. Flight Crew : Flight Engineer / Second Officer Function.Flight Crew : Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Engineer Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 1408 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 183 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 534 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1504703 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown
Human Factors : Situational Awareness Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly Conflict : Ground Conflict, Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Runway Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Other / Unknown Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : Taxi Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airport Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 My student and I were back-taxiing on runway while another aircraft entered the traffic pattern on an extended left base for [the same] runway. We decided to expedite our back taxi so we could depart before the traffic was on final, however the other pilot decided to do a "modified" final, which took less time, and we elected to continue to the beginning of the runway and hold at the beginning of the displaced threshold to wait for landing traffic. As the instructor, I felt like this was the safest course of action since there were no taxiways to exit the runway. However, I believe that if the other pilot had entered the traffic pattern in the downwind, rather than the base, and flown a longer final, then this would have been avoided. The other aircraft landed safely and after he cleared the runway, we departed. Synopsis PA-28 flight instructor reported holding at the end of the runway while another pilot landed due to lack of a taxiway at the non-towered airport.
Time / Day Date : 201712 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : AVL.Tower State Reference : NC Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : AVL Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Small Aircraft, Low Wing, 1 Eng, Retractable Gear Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Taxi Route In Use : None Airspace.Class D : AVL Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory. Tower : AVL Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Skylane 182/RG Turbo Skylane/RG Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Landing Airspace.Class D : AVL Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Facility : AVL.TOWER Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Ground Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1502916 Events
Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Ground Conflict, Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Runway Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : Taxi When Detected : In-flight Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airport Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I was just assuming the position of Ground Control when the event occurred. Local Control had training in progress. I was making myself aware of their traffic as well as my own. They had two in the pattern and were about to get their third in, a TEMCO GC-IB Swift, who was instructed to hold short of the runway when taxied out by the previous controller. I was told about him and [I] was scanning to observe his location. From the low vantage point of our tower, small aircraft are hard to observe around the taxiways. At first pass of my scan, I didn't see him, even when I looked beyond the hold short bars. I started scanning the rest of the taxiway and the General Aviation ramp to see if I had misheard where he was. I taxied the first arrival that I talked [with] to the ramp and looked through the binoculars to see if I could see him better. With the binoculars, I was finally able to see that he had passed the hold short bars, blending in with a billboard in the background as well as with the snow. A second aircraft was flaring out to land. I told the Local Controller and trainee that the TEMCO GC-IB Swift had crossed the hold short lines, and they made a safety decision to allow the C182 to continue to land as they were in a critical phase of flight. The BRASHER warning was given to the TEMCO GC-IB Swift. The crossing of the hold short bars, while a violation of the rule, in this scenario did not place any of the aircraft in an unsafe proximity. The hold short bar for the runway is around 500 feet away from the runway because the airport placed it really far back to "train" pilots to hold short of what will be a new runway that is under construction. The TEMCO GC-IB Swift held where a hold short bar would normally be placed. The hold short bar is in a terrible place and [it] has caused multiple incidents of pilots crossing. The airport authority, mistakenly, thought that the hold short bars should be placed short off the new runway under construction, instead of where a hold short bar would normally be for an active runway. It has confused a lot of pilots and increased workload and the likelihood that an aircraft will pass the hold short bars since it is so far away from the active runway. The hold short bars must be moved up to the normal location of hold short bars. Also, the Tower is way too low to the ground to have a safe viewing of all movement areas. The hold short bars are not observable from the tower. Your perspective is more to looking at the side of aircraft instead of above, and the low vantage point causes small
aircraft to blend in with the hills and trees. The TEMCO GC-IB Swift was completely blended in with the snow, billboard, and trees, and I couldn't even see him until I used binoculars. A higher tower needs to be built to alleviate the unsafe viewing angles for tower controllers. Synopsis ATC Tower Ground Controller reported an aircraft passed the hold short lines as an arriving aircraft was on short final. The Controller added the tower is not high enough to effectively view the taxiways and ramp areas.
Time / Day Date : 201711 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : MSN.Airport State Reference : WI Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : MSN Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Cessna Single Piston Undifferentiated or Other Model Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Taxi Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory. Tower : MSN Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Small Transport, Low Wing, 2 Recip Eng Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Landing Person Reference : I Location Of Person.FaciIity : MSN. Tower Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Local Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Developmental ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1499038 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Training / Qualification Communication Breakdown.PartyI : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Ground Conflict, Critical Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy
Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Runway Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight When Detected : Taxi Result.FIight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airport Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I was training on Local Control. Aircraft X landed, I told them to turn left on a taxiway and contact ground. Aircraft Y was cleared to land and on a short final for an intersecting runway. Ground Control asked for a crossing. I said hold short. Ground told Aircraft X to cross the runway. My trainer reacted quickly and yelled hold short to Ground Control. At this time Aircraft Y had touched down and there was no way to send him around. Ground quickly told Aircraft X to stop and hold short of the runway. Aircraft X continued his crossing until realizing he needed to get off the runway. He made a 180 degree turn back, to hold short of 21 at the taxiway. Synopsis A Tower Controller reported the Ground Controller allowed an aircraft to enter a runway at the same time another aircraft was landing.
Time / Day Date : 201711 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : BUR.Airport State Reference : CA Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : BUR Make Model Name : PC-12 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Landing Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument 10 Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 4970 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 155 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 2100 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1499011 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown. Party2 : ATC Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi
Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 550 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 227 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 207 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1497306 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Ground Conflict, Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Runway Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : Taxi Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 We were cleared for the ILS approach [Runway] 08. During the landing roll out Tower Control cleared us to exit Bravo and contact Ground Control. Once we realized we could not make Bravo we continued to the next taxiway while crossing Runway 15. (I-AHSO was not in effect nor are we permitted to accept the clearance per our sops.) We were instructed to exit D2 without delay due to a Gulfstream on short final. We contacted Ground Control and were instructed to proceed via Delta and hold short of taxiway Alpha and then to hold short Runway 15. We were then cleared to cross Runway 15 and asked to call Tower for a "possible pilot deviation." The First Officer [and I] were perplexed as to what this request was about. After reaching the terminal I called the Tower. The Tower manager informed me that the Tower Controller had to cancel a takeoff clearance issued to a 3737 on a line up and wait clearance on Runway 15 after it had powered up. I explained to the Tower manager that while I was on the landing rollout I was not able to respond quickly enough to inform the Controller I was unable to make Bravo, as my primary responsibility at the time was controlling the aircraft while on an active runway. He explained that I should not have accepted the clearance to make Bravo and I agreed. He also explained that another aircraft was on short final and that they (ATC) had separation criteria on aircraft speed over specific land marks on final approach which they based aircraft separation on. Further, he explained I should not have accepted the taxi clearance if I could not comply. I agreed. Finally, he explained that "we all learned from this scenario." The possible outcome could have been disastrous had the B737 not been able to stop in time as we crossed Runway 15 on the landing rollout.
In hindsight, this scenario highlights a very thin margin for error regarding separation of landing aircraft during a very busy time at this airport, and the possible error on the Controller's part. I agree with the Controller's instruction to not accept a clearance if unable to comply. Another contributing factor was my lack of situational awareness of the aircraft in position for takeoff and the aircraft cleared to land on short final. Lastly, I believe the Controller was rushed to keep things moving and subsequently should not have issued the takeoff clearance until our aircraft was clear of the intersecting runway and no conflict existed. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis PC 12 flight crew reported being unable to make the turnoff that ATC was planning, resulting in cancellation of takeoff clearance for a 8737 in position on the crossing runway.
Time / Day Date : 201711 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Skyhawk 172/Cutlass 172 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Takeoff Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Sail Plane Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Landing Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Private Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 1052 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 34 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 640 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1494774 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Communication Breakdown
Communication Breakdown.PartyI Communication Breakdown. Party2 Events : Flight Crew : Flight Crew Anomaly.Conflict : Ground Conflict, Critical Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Runway Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.HorizontaI : 3500 Miss Distance.VerticaI : 100 When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I was waiting to depart ZZZ. I was monitoring inbound traffic visually, via ADS-B, and over the radio to determine an appropriate opportunity to depart. One aircraft had just landed. Two aircraft on downwind were discussing the spacing between them. One of them decided to do a 360 for spacing. One other plane was 8 miles out on a straight-in. After the plane that had just landed exited the runway, I continued tracking the two aircraft on downwind, listening to their reports on the radio and via ADS-B data on a moving map. I could see no one on final or base. Just as an aircraft reported turning on left base, I radioed that I was departing XX with a left downwind departure while taxiing onto the runway, and started an immediate takeoff roll. Immediately after my transmission ended, the same aircraft that had just reported turning base reported "turning final" followed by "coming over the top, watch out," while another aircraft transmitted "aircraft taking off, there's a glider landing on top of you. " During that exchange, I aborted takeoff to clear the runway as soon as possible. I also transmitted that I would vacate the runway as soon as possible. The glider flew high above me and touched down on the second half of the 7,000 foot runway. Synopsis C172 pilot reported a ground conflict after beginning the takeoff roll at a non-towered airport.
Time / Day Date : 201710 Local Time Of Day : 0001-0600 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 18000 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Bonanza 36 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Taxi Flight Phase : Landing Route In Use : None Airspace.Class C : ZZZ Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal : 20 Make Model Name : Piper Twin Piston Undifferentiated or Other Model Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Phase : Takeoff Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Private Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Experience.Flight Crew. Total : 2926 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 21 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 2490 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1494500
Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Experience.Flight Crew. Total : 7610 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : O Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 220 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1494504 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Ground Conflict, Critical Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Runway Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.HorizontaI : 15 Miss Distance.VerticaI : O When Detected : Taxi Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airport Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Airport Narrative: 1 I was acting as pilot (PIC) of my bonanza BE36, with my neighbor as co-pilot, on an IFR. My co-pilot was handling radio transmissions and requested and cleared for the ILS approach by Approach. We were then instructed to contact tower. When the co-pilot contacted tower, we were on a 5 - 6 mile final on the ILS approach. Tower informed us that we were number 2 following a Skyhawk and cleared us to land runway 14. The co- pilot then read back our landing instructions which included our call sign. The landing roll took us past taxiway D and I was slowing the aircraft to decide which taxiway to exit for [FBO]. By now, I was approaching runway 4 and the co-pilot turned to the right in time to see a Twin Piper on take-off roll. Since there are no brakes on the right, the co-pilot told me to STOP!! STOP!! STOP!! When I stopped, the aircraft was inside of the runway 04 edge line. I immediately turned to my right, and saw the Twin Piper on take-off roll. Coinciding with the above, the tower instructed the Twin Piper to abort the take-off. The pilot of the Twin aircraft did not abort the take-off, did not acknowledge the towers instruction to abort the take-off and became airborne. The twin passed us with approximately three feet of altitude and within fifteen feet of the nose of our Bonanza. By the time the abort take-off was issued by the tower, a collision with the Twin Piper would have been inevitable had we not stopped. Both the speed of the Twin and his lack of altitude when passing in front of us, only reaffirms my opinion that a collision would have been unavoidable. We were then given runway exit instructions by the tower to initially
turn right onto runway 04. This was then amended to continue to taxiway Bravo, right turn. Ground control then cleared us to taxi to [FBO] via Taxiway Alpha, hold short Runway 04 - 22. We were then given clearance to cross runway 4, and proceed to [FBO]. The tower should never have issued a take-off clearance to an aircraft departing a crossing runway without issuing and receiving confirmation of a land and hold short instruction of that crossing runway to landing aircraft. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis Bonanza 36 pilots reported that after landing, they had to make a sudden stop due to an aircraft taking off on a crossing runway.
Time / Day Date : 201711 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : BJC.Tower State Reference : CO Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 100 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : BJC Aircraft Operator : FBO Make Model Name : Skyhawk 172/Cutlass 172 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Training Flight Phase : Final Approach Route In Use : None Airspace.CIass D : BJC Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory. Tower : BJC Make Model Name : Skyhawk 172/Cutlass 172 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Flight Phase : Taxi Route In Use : None Aircraft : 3 Reference : Z Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Amateur/Home Built/ExperimentaI Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Approach Airspace.CIass D : BJC Person Reference : I Location Of Person. Facility : BJC Tower Reporter Organization : Government
Function.Air Traffic Control : Local Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1493529 Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Conflict : Ground Conflict, Critical Anomaly.Deviation - Track / Heading : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Runway Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.VerticaI : 100 When Detected : In-flight 1 (yrs) Result.Flight Crew : Executed Go Around / Missed Approach Result.FIight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Aircraft X was in the traffic pattern for Runway 30L, was extended upwind and told Tower would call crosswind turn to accommodate Aircraft Z [a Vintage warbird] performing the overhead maneuver on same Runway behind them. Aircraft Y was following Aircraft X and was told to extend upwind to follow that traffic. Aircraft X was observed approximate 3NM southwest of the field and questioned whether they were staying in pattern or departing area. Aircraft X responded that they were on the crosswind awaiting for me to instruct downwind turn. I then instructed them to make a right 180 degree turn to rejoin left downwind and issued traffic to follow that would be just south of the VOR. Aircraft X repeated instructions. Aircraft Y was sequenced number one for Runway 30L and issued Touch and Go Clearance. Aircraft X was observed via radar close to downwind, was told to enter downwind and issued number 2 sequence behind the traffic downwind to base and cleared Runway 30L Touch and Go. Aircraft X repeated all instructions, including clearance to Runway30L. Other calls were made when I noticed Aircraft Y stopped midfield on the Runway, recognized that Aircraft X may have to go around and began a visual scan to locate them, they should have been on final at this time. I could not locate them on final and at that time, Aircraft X reported "Going Around". I scanned from the approach end of Runway 301- then towards the departure end and I saw Aircraft X opposite direction approximately 100 FT AGL over the Aircraft Y on the Runway. Aircraft Y was stopped, not because of an issue with their aircraft, but they saw the opposite direction traffic approaching and they pulled off to the side to try to accommodate. Aircraft X was issued further instructions to sequence for the appropriate
Runway. No further issues came from this event. When questioned Aircraft X said there was a lot of "radio chatter" and he got confused, there was no instructor on board at the time. Recommendation: Maintain awareness of all areas, when a pilot is not doing what they were instructed to begin with they should require more attention. Keep a good scan and when you notice something is not looking/feeling right solicit help from other tower team members. Synopsis BJC Tower Controller reported that after issuing instructions to an aircraft on pattern traffic and receiving the correct read-back instructions, the pilot aligned on final to the opposite runway.
Time / Day Date : 201710 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Sail Plane Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Flight Phase : Takeoff Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person : Gate / Ramp / Line Reporter Organization : Personal Function.Ground Personnel : Vehicle Driver ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1492339 Human Factors : Training / Qualification Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly Conflict : Ground Conflict, Less Severe Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Runway Detector. Person : Observer Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I was driving my daughter to glider lessons. My car was on the runway. I had my hazard lights on and my headlights on even though it was noon and sunny. I got to an intersection of road and I stopped. I looked both ways. I did see an airplane at one end but it wasn't moving. I waited about 10 seconds. I thought he might be waiting for me but I didn't have a radio to ask so I decided to cross. THAT was wrong. I didn't know better but that isn't an excuse. I thought I was delaying him but I now know that was a terrible decision for me to make. As it turned out the aircraft started approaching. I got out of the way but I scared everyone and feel terrible. In the future I will wait for as long as it takes for the airplane to leave the runway. The airplane has the right of way always.
Synopsis Vehicle driver reported unknowing entering and stopping a vehicle on the runway while an aircraft was preparing to takeoff.
Time / Day Date : 201710 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : 3R7. Airport State Reference : LA Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 300 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Dusk Ceiling.SingIe Value : 450 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : 3R7 Aircraft Operator : FBO 10 Make Model Name : Small Aircraft, Low Wing, 2 Eng, Retractable Gear Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Training Flight Phase : Initial Approach Airspace.CIass G : 3R7 Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Make Model Name : Any Unknown or Unlisted Aircraft Manufacturer Flight Phase : Taxi Component Aircraft Component : Air/Ground Communication Aircraft Reference : Y Problem : Improperly Operated Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : FBO Function.FIight Crew : Instructor Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument
Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 915 Experience. Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 293 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 695 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1491717 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly Conflict : Ground Conflict, Critical Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Runway Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Executed Go Around / Missed Approach Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Cancelled IFR with Lake Charles approach and continued visually into 3R7. Entered the left downwind and saw an aircraft holding short of runway 26. Made the appropriate downwind radio call. Made a turn to base and made the appropriate radio call. Turned final and called final on the radio. When on short final the aircraft holding short entered runway 26 for takeoff. We did a go around on the right side. The aircraft who entered the runway continued his take off and proceeded north. We entered a right downwind and landed. An [aircraft] landing Runway 35 witnessed it; that pilot and I were in radio communications during pattern for our respective runways. The aircraft which was the cause of the incident never made a radio call. Synopsis GA flight instructor reported another aircraft entered the runway without CTAF announcement, causing a ground conflict.
Time / Day Date : 201710 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : CRQ.Tower State Reference : CA Altitude.AGL.Single Value Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Work Environment Factor : Temperature - Extreme Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : CRQ Make Model Name : Small Aircraft, High Wing, 1 Eng, Fixed Gear Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Takeoff Route In Use : None Airspace.Class D : CRQ Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.Tower : CRQ Make Model Name : Light Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Final Approach Airspace.Class D : CRQ Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Facility : CRQ.Tower Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Local Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1490963 Human Factors : Distraction : Physiological - Other Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors Human Factors : Confusion : 3.0
Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Ground Conflict, Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Runway Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight When Detected : Taxi Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Result.Air Traffic Control : Separated Traffic Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Equipment / Tooling Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 The tower air conditioning unit broke and the temperature in the tower was 99 degrees F matching the outside air temperature. This was incredibly distracting and unsafe to be working conditions. On top of that there were 3 additional tech-ops employees in the tower cab trying to fix the air conditioning unit and two managers in the tower to supervise them. 5 extra people in the tower cab on top of the controllers in the cab created a huge distraction and exceeding the capacity in the cab. I just took the position and was briefed we were on Runway 24. Aircraft X checked in ready for departure. I cleared Aircraft X for an immediate departure from runway 24 and issued jet traffic on a 4 mile final (Aircraft Y). When I did not see any aircraft moving towards the Runway 24, I told Aircraft X to cancel takeoff clearance and to hold short of Runway 24. The pilot replied they were already on Runway 06. I told him to exit the runway and to contact ground. Aircraft Y was able to land with no incident. I told the manager that we should be ATC zero with these working conditions. I was wearing ice packs to stay cool enough on position. Limiting distractions needs to be a priority and could have been the cause of this potential midair. Synopsis CRQ Tower Controller reported an aircraft they cleared for takeoff was at the opposite end of the runway then they thought it was with traffic opposite direction on short final.
Time / Day Date : 201710 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : MYNN.Airport State Reference : FO Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : MYNN Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Medium Large Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Taxi Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 7000 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1490121 Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Situational Awareness Analyst Callback : Attempted Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 1200 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1490256 Human Factors : Situational Awareness
Human Factors : Confusion Analyst Callback : Attempted Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Ground Conflict, Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Runway Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : Taxi Result.General : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airport Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 After generally conducting [a] normal approach to landing by my First Officer, I assumed control of our aircraft on the landing rollout on Runway 9 in Nassau, Bahamas. Tower instructed us to turn left on Taxiway Bravo and hold short of Runway 14 for traffic taking off. During our approach briefing, we planned on that taxiway, understood, and read back ATC's instructions. I exited our landing runway and had my head up in preparation for holding short of the intersecting runway, runway 14. I followed through with my simple after landing flows and in a matter of just a few seconds to turn our lights off, we had already rolled past both hold short lines. I also was not taxiing at any significant rate of speed. Additionally, the taxiway diagram is deceiving in its length between both runways. I immediately applied our brakes aggressively and stopped prior to the actual runway. It was during this time that a Turboprop aircraft was lifting off some 1000 feet prior to our position and climbing out. In all the times I have landed at Pindling International, I do not think I have ever experienced this scenario. I admit and accept full responsibility for my actions with no excuse for not holding short of the respective runway. With that information in mind however, I hope this information is passed along through our Safety Department. This NEEDS to be addressed as a Runway Incursion Hotspot on our Jeppesen Charts. In addition, I firmly believe that Taxiway Bravo should not even necessarily be used by large aircraft. I do not believe, while looking at Airport Diagrams and the layout of both hold short lines for each runway on that taxiway, that our aircraft can even fit legally between both lines. Google maps indicates that there is approximately 50 feet between each line. There is a notation on the chart, Taxiway Bravo by Airport Authorization. But that does not preclude per se the safety and legality of a jet of our size, or even larger from properly maneuvering through that area. Perhaps an additional notation concerning taxiway bravo could be in order. A note that indicates how short it is, and/or hotspot indications? Narrative: 2 While taxiing post landing in MYNN we were told to take Taxiway Bravo from Runway 9 and hold short of 14. I read back to ATC, pilot flying repeated, and we did our post landing flows very quickly after exiting runway, however in that very short period of being heads down we passed the hold short bars for Runway 14. We did not cross the intersecting
Runway 14 however. The main issue is the hold bars for 27 and 14 are only 50 feet apart, so once clear of one, you are across the other. The diagram notes only state 'TWY B by airport authorization' however they do not state it as a hot spot or indicate nonstandard markings. Airport has nonstandard markings, and Taxiway Bravo is very short and should not be used by aircraft of our category when asked to hold short. The 10-7 page should make note of this as well as the taxiway diagram should depict a hot spot or some other note about how difficult holding short of 14 is. Synopsis Air carrier flight crew reported after landing on Runway 9 at MYNN, they exited at Taxiway B and crossed the hold line for Runway 14 while trying to determine if they were clear of Runway 9.
Time / Day Date : 201710 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZZZ.Tower State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Night Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : FBO Make Model Name : PA-28 Cherokee/Archer/Dakota/Pillan/Warnor Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Training Flight Phase : Taxi Route In Use : None Airspace.Class D : ZZZ Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : FBO Make Model Name : PA-28 Cherokee/Archer/Dakota/PiIIan/Warrior Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Training Flight Phase : Final Approach Route In Use : None Airspace.CIass D : ZZZ Person Reference : I Location Of Person.FaciIity : ZZZ.Tower Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Local Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control.Time Certified In Pos 1 (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1489494 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness
Human Factors : Confusion Communication Breakdown. Partyl . • ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Ground Conflict, Critical Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Runway Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight When Detected : Taxi Result.FIight Crew : Executed Go Around / Missed Approach Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Result.Air Traffic Control : Separated Traffic Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airport Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Contributing Factors / Situations : Staffing Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I was working local I, 2, and 3 combined after dark due to staffing shortage. A solo pilot licensed, student cross country unknown that she was solo at the time, called ready for departure from run-up position holding short of the runway. I replied to Aircraft X to "standby", which is agreed to be used with aircraft when they call ready. I then turned to the runway to observe a sequence between two other aircraft and missed Aircraft X's read back of "line up and wait." Meanwhile Aircraft Y had turned final for the runway. Approximately 15 seconds later I turned to observe Aircraft Y approaching 1/2 mile final. This is when I noticed Aircraft X appeared to be moving. It was hard to tell at first because she did not have her Nav lights on and if I remember correctly just her strobes which also caught my attention. I asked her if she was moving onto the runway and she replied that she was lining up to wait. At this point Aircraft Y went around and I instructed them to offset east of the runway. Aircraft Y was 1/2 mile final when they began their go around procedure. I believe this to be partly my error. I'm not sure how someone can be told "standby" and hear "line up and wait." But I suppose this is a high traffic-training environment and nothing surprises me anymore. I was working my 3rd hour of Local I at the time of the event and was geared down to the traffic. I should have caught the incorrect read back but was multitasking with the other controller in the tower cab and was searching for my parallel runway traffic. I think the automatic responses I am used to hearing may have created a bit of complacency as I was becoming more tired throughout the shift. I had no clue how I didn't hear her read back. I think better staffing to create a little more of a rhythm and variety in the daily rotation so one doesn't work the same position all day would help. I think if all the [local] student solo pilots, regardless of whether or not they already have their license, use the call sign of "green" this would identify a mistake-prone low-hour pilot. It would alert us to the greater likelihood of incorrect actions/read backs.
Synopsis Tower Controller reported a runway incursion after instructing an aircraft to standby.
Time / Day Date : 201710 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : HOU.Tower State Reference : TX Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Ground : HOU Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Large Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Taxi Route In Use : None Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory. Tower : HOU Aircraft Operator : Corporate Make Model Name : Medium Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Takeoff Route In Use : None Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Facility : HOU.Tower Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Local Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1489251 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Situational Awareness : 13
Communication Breakdown.PartyI . • ATC Communication Breakdown. Party2 : ATC Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 546 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1489506 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Person : 3 Reference : 3 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Last 90 Days : 480 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 4550 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1489268 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Conflict : Ground Conflict, Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Runway Detector.Automation : Air Traffic Control Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 We were in the last part of a large departure push. I was working the Tower Local Control position. I had 4 aircraft ready to depart. Three were at one runway and one was at an intersecting runway. I was departing a business jet from an intersecting runway. As the taxiing Aircraft X turned north, I lined Aircraft Y up on the runway. With my plan firmly in my head, I would depart Aircraft Y then I would allow Aircraft X to cross the runway 4 at a taxiway. When the ground controller coordinated the crossing, I had my plan made and
did not realize the crossing was before Aircraft Y. I cleared Aircraft Y for takeoff. The aircraft rotated and was airborne before the taxiway. The ASDE-X alerted. I saw Aircraft X approaching the runway, but in my mind the aircraft would hold short of the runway. All the memory aids were in use. Maybe additional training on expectation bias would help. Narrative: 2 Taxing to the active runway we were cleared to cross the runway at a taxiway on two separate occasions within 30 seconds. We both looked at the approach end of the runway and confirmed an aircraft in position as Ground Control had indicated. My First Officer confirmed with me that he was not moving. I also looked and agreed that he was not moving. I now concentrated on steering the aircraft on the taxi line while crossing the runway. My First Officer then stated Aircraft Y was indeed rolling down the runway. I applied brakes, but was not able to stop before entering the runway. Aircraft Y rotated and over flew us. We immediately queried Ground and they confirmed for a 3rd time that we were cleared to cross the runway. Narrative: 3 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis HOU Tower Controller and flight crew reported the Controller cleared them to cross a runway at the same time a departure was beginning its takeoff roll.
Time / Day Date : 201710 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : PWK.Airport State Reference : IL Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : PWK Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Small Aircraft, Low Wing, 1 Eng, Retractable Gear Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Takeoff Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Make Model Name : Light Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Flight Phase : Taxi Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Experience.Flight Crew. Total : 4100 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 40 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 250 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1488865 Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Ground Conflict, Critical Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance
Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Runway Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control Miss Distance.Horizontal : 100 Miss Distance.VerticaI : O When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Rejected Takeoff Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 I was cleared for departure on Runway 24 at Chicago Executive airport. Runway 16 and 24 were being used for departures. I commenced my takeoff roll and was approximately 25- 30% down the runway at approximately 50-60 knots, accelerating rapidly when over the Tower frequency controller called "STOP! [Call sign] STOP, STOP RIGHT NOW!" I immediately applied full brakes, initially thinking that I had misunderstood my takeoff clearance, or that I was not actually on a runway, but was on a taxiway (more on that later.) A fraction of a second later I saw Aircraft Y taxiing on Taxiway Echo from left to right toward Runway 16, and crossing over the hold short line onto Runway 24, directly in front of me. I estimate that he was 100 feet directly in front of me with my speed down to probably less than 20 knots. I could clearly see the copilot in the cockpit as he was looking forward; I don't think he even saw me. The Tower Controller then had me turn behind him onto Taxiway Charlie back to the departure end of Runway 24. The controller apologized for what had happened, then again cleared me for takeoff which was uneventful as was the rest of the flight. Since I was on Tower frequency and not Ground, I do not know what taxi clearance was given to the Aircraft Y pilots. Whether the Ground Controller cleared him to taxi to 16 without holding at Runway 24, or he was instructed to hold at 24, but did not, the mistake was potentially catastrophic. Had the controller not called out when he did, or even a fraction Of a second later, I would have not seen Aircraft Y until it was too late for me to stop in time to avoid hitting him. I would have been very close to rotation speed and it would have been impossible to fly over him. By the grace of God an accident did not occur which no doubt would have resulted in fatalities. Because I do not know the instructions given to the Aircraft Y, it is impossible for me to know why he was on the runway, but Runway 24 is quite narrow and the painted white markings are extremely faded. I initially mistook it for a taxiway when I was cleared on to Runway 24, and taxied north onto taxiway Charlie so had to make a 180 degree turn on Charlie and taxi back to the runway. This despite me having SafeTaxi diagrams on my Garmin 750, which I was using at the time. That portion of the runway has a displaced threshold so the markings are not typical white lines, but are the arrows pointing to the threshold; again these were very faded and nearly imperceptible. If the markings for Runway 24 at Taxiway Echo were similarly faded (likely) I could see how a taxiing airplane could mistake it for just another taxiway. This location is listed as a "hot spot" on the airport diagram, and clearly that designation is justified, but just listing it as such doesn't make it any less dangerous. Synopsis
GA pilot reported aggressive aborted takeoff when alerted by ATC, as another aircraft taxied onto the runway.
Time / Day Date : 201710 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : MEM.Airport State Reference : TN Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : MEM Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Widebody Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Flight Phase : Final Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.CIass B : MEM Aircraft : 2 ATC / Advisory.Tower : MEM Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Large Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Takeoff Route In Use : None Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Facility : MEM.TOWER Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Local Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1487721 Human Factors : Time Pressure Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Conflict : Airborne Conflict
Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Runway Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Executed Go Around / Missed Approach Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Result.Air Traffic Control : Separated Traffic Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 Aircraft Z was on a visual approach to Runway 27, Aircraft Y was ready to depart Runway 36L, Aircraft X was on a visual approach to Runway 36L. Aircraft Z was asked to keep his speed up as much as possible. Aircraft X was told to continue and reduce to final approach speed. Aircraft Y was instructed to line up and wait and told about the traffic and when he could expect to depart. Aircraft X was also informed when to expect landing clearance. Once Aircraft Z crossed the Runway 27 threshold and touched down Aircraft Y was cleared for takeoff. Aircraft Y was airborne about midfield when I observed Aircraft X initiate a go- around. Aircraft X immediately started a left hand turn, but never verbally communicated a pilot initiated go-around. I instructed Aircraft Y to fly runway heading and climb and maintain 5,000 feet so as not to conflict with Aircraft X in the left turn. I then instructed Aircraft X to turn left heading 270 and climb and maintain 3,000 feet. If I had not waited for Aircraft Z to touch down and used the Arrival Departure Window (ADW) procedure more effectively Aircraft Y would have been further down the runway thus possibly negating the need for Aircraft X to initiate a go-around. Also, I could have just waited to depart Aircraft Y. Synopsis MEM Tower Local Controller reported they had to issue last minute instructions to separate an arriving aircraft which initiated a go-around just as a departure was airborne.
Time / Day Date : 201710 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Weather Elements / Visibility : Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Rain Make Model Name : B737 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Taxi Flight Phase : Landing Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 1140 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1487536 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Ground Conflict, Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Runway Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Other / Unknown Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : Taxi Result.FIight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification
Result.Air Traffic Control : Result.Air Traffic Control : Assessments Provided Assistance Separated Traffic Contributing Factors / Situations : Airport Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Weather Narrative: 1 After touchdown during rollout, heavy rain was encountered. ATC gave us clearance to exit the runway at a specified taxiway, I could not discern which taxiway was the correct taxiway, or even exactly where the taxiways were. I had my windshield wipers on high/fast. While slowing and identified where I was supposed to exit, ATC cleared a flight for takeoff. We had not even started our exit off the runway, nor did I know where exactly I was exiting. After the takeoff clearance issued, I tried to alert ATC we were on the runway, [departing aircraft] was simultaneously reading back their clearance. After [departing aircraft] read back their takeoff clearance, I told them to "cancel their takeoff clearance, [we are] is still on the runway". ATC, then asked [departing aircraft] to taxi down the runway and make the first available exit. Synopsis 3737 Captain reported that after landing, they were still taxiing on the runway when another aircraft was given clearance for takeoff.
Time / Day Date : 201710 Local Time Of Day : 0001-0600 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : SRQ.Tower State Reference : FL Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : SRQ Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Small Aircraft, Low Wing, 1 Eng, Retractable Gear Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Takeoff Flight Phase : Taxi Route In Use : None Airspace.Class C : SRQ Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.Tower : SRQ Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Medium Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Landing Airspace.CIass C : SRQ Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Facility : SRQ.TOWER Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Local Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1485995 Human Factors : Time Pressure Human Factors : Situational Awareness Person : 2
Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : Y Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying ASRS Report Number.Accession Number . • 1486212 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Person : 3 Reference : 3 Location Of Person.Facility : SRQ.TOWER Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Supervisor / CIC Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1486002 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Ground Conflict, Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Runway Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : Taxi Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Aircraft Y had landed Rwy14 and was rolling out to slow for parking. I then cleared Aircraft X for takeoff Rwy14. I realized almost immediately that I should have just put him in position and not cleared him for takeoff. I then told Aircraft X to cancel his takeoff and to Line Up and Wait. At this point Aircraft X still wasn't on the Runway yet. He didn't respond. I then asked Aircraft Y where he was parking, he told me, I told him to turn left next TXY and to contact Ground. Then I saw Aircraft X starting to roll on the RWY, I once again cancelled his takeoff clearance and told him to hold in position once again no response. I cancelled his takeoff 2 more times and never got a response. Aircraft Y in the meantime, had started to turn off the runway. Aircraft X departed and when I switched him to departure he responded. The pilot of Aircraft X had done the same thing on Ground Control, when told to stand by for his read back, he disregarded the Ground Control instructions and started to read his clearance back anyways. I don't know if he was having radio issues or if he just has a habit of not listening to proper instructions. I feel that I probably used anticipated separation a little too early, but I did catch it in time. I don't know if a procedure change is necessary, but maybe the pilot of Aircraft X, needs his radio fixed or needs more instruction on how to comply with ATC instructions.
Narrative: 2 Upon landing rollout on runway 14 at SRQ going through approximately 50 kts tower began repeating "cancel takeoff clearance" to a departing VFR aircraft that was behind us on runway 14. The controller repeated the instructions 4 or 5 times with increasing tones of urgency, and we did not hear any responses from the aircraft the cancellation was intended for. As we cleared runway 14 to the left on taxiway J, I looked up and observed an aircraft climbing out from runway 14, that was almost directly above us as we cleared the runway. ATC never mentioned anything about the event to us and told us to contact ground control for uneventful taxi and parking. Neither my FO or I remember the circumstances that the [other aircraft] was cleared for takeoff under, or if the [pilot] was cleared to depart at all. It is possible that the [pilot] was given a line up and wait instruction from SRQ tower but inadvertently departed out of habit, and was too focused on the takeoff (or radio volume too low) to respond to the command to cancel the takeoff from tower. No evasive action needed to be taken, and we never heard anything concerning a runway incursion from ATC. I want to add that the [aircraft] was several hundred feet high by the time it got to taxiway J (about 7000 ft down runway 14) where we were clearing the runway. Narrative: 3 [Narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis Tower Controllers and a landing pilot reported another aircraft ignored instructions to cancel takeoff clearance and departed over the landing aircraft still on the runway.
Time / Day Date : 201710 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 500 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal 10 Make Model Name : PA-28R Cherokee Arrow All Series Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Training Flight Phase : Landing Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.Class G : ZZZ Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Small Aircraft, Low Wing, I Eng, Retractable Gear Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Landing Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.Class G : ZZZ Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.Flight Crew : Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 968 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 80
Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 291 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1485649 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly Conflict : NMAC Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Runway Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.Horizontal : O Miss Distance.VerticaI : 100 When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Two accidents almost happened today. My student and I were in the pattern. We extended downwind to allow a DC-3 to land. As we were preparing to turn base we saw a plane pass about 100 ft or less underneath us. They made no radio calls and only entered the pattern on extended base. They continued onto final and landed shortly after the DC-3 touched down. The DC-3 was still on the runway (approximately 2500 ft separation). He promptly left making no departure radio call but did report leaving the area to the west. Synopsis Piper PA-28 instructor reported they were on an extended downwind when another small airplane cut under them nearly causing a midair collision.
Time / Day Date : 201710 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : TOA.Tower State Reference : CA Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 200 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : TOA Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Small Aircraft, High Wing, 1 Eng, Fixed Gear Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Training Flight Phase : Final Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.Class D : TOA Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.Tower : TOA Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Small Aircraft, Low Wing, 2 Eng, Retractable Gear Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Landing Route In Use : Visual Approach Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.FaciIity : TOA.Tower Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Other / Unknown Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1485353 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Training / Qualification
Human Factors : Distraction Communication Breakdown. Partyl . • ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Function.Flight Crew : Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Engineer Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification.FIight Crew : Rotorcraft Experience.Flight Crew. Total : 10317 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 152 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 3120 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1485353 Human Factors : Training / Qualification Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Ground Conflict, Critical Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Runway Detector. Person : Flight Crew Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Flight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airport Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 The wind was shifting, I was cutting the ATIS and local control had noticed it was changing even more. I stopped cutting the ATIS so we could discuss the runway change. We had
decided to change since Aircraft X just went around due to the wind. Local control still had one more inbound and I did not hear local control give Aircraft X any instructions as I was working on the ATIS and runway change. As I get done cutting the ATIS Aircraft Y was landing roll and Aircraft X was 1/4 mile away and descending to the runway. Aircraft X landed opposite direction about 20 seconds in before Aircraft X. I held my comments about what happened to myself at that time so I could finish the weather input. I found out local control was telling me that he did not issue a landing clearance and instructed the pilot to go around. Not 5 minutes later we had a vehicle get onto the runway so that increased my workload and I called for relief. This became my focus now. I started completing the paperwork for the vehicle deviation and once dealing with the checklists noticed that ODO (opposite direction operations) could be considered a significant event. I again reached out to a supervisor for guidance. Hindsight is always 20/20. We don't see runway changes often, I should have waited on the ATIS and watched local control with the movement of traffic (local control is under 1 year certified). Narrative: 2 I had just completed a go around due to a tailwind during the approach. Tower told me to join the downwind to and said that there was another aircraft on a long final. I acknowledged their direction and said that I did not have the other aircraft in sight. I reversed course about 3-4 miles out being concerned about an aircraft which was on final. Because of the runway change ("turning the airport around") there was a lot of chatter on the radios. I saw the aircraft ahead of me land and heard tower told him to exit on a taxiway. He was moving very slowly and I was prepared for another go around if he did not clear before we landed and explained to my students what I was doing and what was happening. As he cleared the runway I continued my landing and landed uneventfully. Today I was called by the Tower Supervisor who told me that they were filing a possible pilot deviation because the tower had instructed me to go around. I did not hear that transmission which I believe was due to all the transmissions associated with the runway change. She also said that I had landed when the other aircraft was still on the runway. This did not occur. I was prepared to go around and would not have continued my landing had he still been on the runway. I had a straight line view of the other aircraft while the tower's angle to the runway and taxiway could have given the impression that the first aircraft had not cleared. That is what I believe happened. I did not land with another aircraft on the runway. Synopsis TOA Tower Controller and GA pilot reported an aircraft possibly landed with an opposite direction traffic rolling on the runway.
Time / Day Date : 201709 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : MLE.Airport State Reference : NE Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Weather Elements / Visibility.VisibiIity : Light : Daylight Ceiling : CLR Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : MLE Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Bonanza 35 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Landing Route In Use : Visual Approach Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.CTAF : MLE Aircraft Operator : FBO 10 Make Model Name : Luscombe Model 8/Luscombe 50 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Training Flight Phase : Takeoff Route In Use : None Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Private Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 4500 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 30 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 2500
ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1484702 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Conflict : Ground Conflict, Critical Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Runway Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.Horizontal : 300 Miss Distance.VerticaI : O When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I was on final approach to Runway 12 at MLE, winds were calm and the preferred runway for calm winds is Runway 12. When I was about 500 ft above ground, a plane called on the Unicom that he was taking off on Runway 30 (opposite end of my landing runway). I called him on the radio and cautioned him about our position, and impending landing. He did not respond. I flared and on my rollout, I noticed he had begun his takeoff roll. I called again, but again, no response. I had turned on my landing light far out on final, which I usually do. I flashed the landing light several times, hoping they would see us. I had no choice but to continue my landing rollout, and was ready to exit the runway onto the grass if the other aircraft did not stop. Just before I reached a taxiway to exit the runway, the other aircraft had begun to slow down. He stopped on the runway as I was exiting onto the taxiway. No collision, no damage, but a little scary. Notwithstanding the fact that my radio communications were not heard by this other pilot, he should have checked the runway visually for any other traffic, which he did not. Synopsis BE35 pilot on landing roll reported a ground conflict with opposite direction traffic on the takeoff roll at MLE.
Time / Day Date : 201709 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : PHL.Tower State Reference : PA Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Ground : PHL Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Large Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Taxi Route In Use : None Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.Ground : PHL Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Large Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Flight Phase : Final Approach Flight Phase : Taxi Route In Use.Other Aircraft : 3 Reference : Z ATC / Advisory.Ground : PHL Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Large Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Phase : Taxi Aircraft : 4 Reference : A ATC / Advisory.Ground : PHL Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Large Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Phase : Taxi
Aircraft : 5 Reference : B ATC / Advisory.Ground : PHL Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Large Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.FaciIity : PHL.TOWER Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Ground Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control.Time Certified In Pos 1 (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1483591 : 3.5 Human Factors : Human Factors : Human Factors : Human Factors Human Factors Communication Communication Person : 2 Reference : 2 Communication Breakdown Confusion Situational Awareness : Workload : Distraction Breakdown.Party1 . Breakdown. Party2 • ATC : Flight Crew Location Of Person.Aircraft : A Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1483804 : Workload Human Factors Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Distraction : Confusion Human Factors Human Factors : Time Pressure Person : 3 Reference : 3 Location Of Person.Aircraft : A Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1483793 Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Distraction
Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Confusion Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown. Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Conflict : Ground Conflict, Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Taxiway Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Runway Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : Taxi Result.Flight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.FIight Crew : Executed Go Around / Missed Approach Result.FIight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airport Contributing Factors / Situations : Chart Or Publication Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I was working Ground Control sectors combined, moderate to heavy traffic. There was a disabled aircraft on the primary arrival runway. As a result arrivals were landing on the primary departure runway, increasing the workload for both myself and the local east controller. Adding to the complexity of the situation were several similar call signs among proposed departure aircraft. Air Carrier X called for taxi, but called himself Air Carrier Y. I issued instructions to Air Carrier Z, believing it to be the correct call sign, and Air Carrier X responded. Hearing the read back with the correct call sign, I realized I needed to replace the misposted Air Carrier Z strip from local east's bay with the correct Air Carrier X, correct the strip marking, remove the incorrect Air Carrier Z from taxi status in the Departure Sequencing Program (DSP), and put Air Carrier X into taxi status. Workload increased significantly at this point as I attempted to continue responding to other departures while correcting the issues caused by the call sign mixup. Shortly after these events, Air Carrier A called at spot 2 and I issued instructions to taxi "Runway X via Juliet, Yankee, Kilo" and verified that the pilot had his weight and balance numbers and would be ready for departure, as this was a very short taxi. He said he was ready and I instructed him to monitor tower. There were at least two similar call signs also proposed for departure, I cannot recall the exact numbers. Shortly after taxiing Air Carrier A, I realized that once again I had put the incorrect flight plan into taxi status and posted the wrong strip, this time for Air Carrier B instead of Air Carrier A as I had intended. This time the mistake was entirely my own, as I had simply taken the wrong strip out of my bay. Once again, my workload spiked as I retrieved the incorrect strip from local east's bay, replaced it with the correct strip, marked it
appropriately, removed the incorrect Air Carrier B from taxi status, put Air Carrier A into taxi status, and quickly reviewed the flow control program to make sure I wasn't missing anything. While I was accomplishing these tasks, I did not see that Air Carrier A missed the eastbound turn onto the wrong taxiway continuing south and across the runway approach safety area. Two other members of the tower team spotted the conflict with an arrival short final and shouted warnings to Local Control. I began calling out to Air Carrier A, on the chance that he had not switched to tower yet, but got no answer. Local Control sent the arriving aircraft around, but it appeared to overfly the taxiing Air Carrier A on short final. The Yankee/KiIo/Whiskey area is one where we often see pilots take wrong turns or fail to turn when they should, often taxiing right past the end of the runway or crossing the runway approach on Yankee. A contributing factor worth noting is that without numerous similar call signs among [Air Carriers], I would have had more time to scan out the windows and I feel I would have been more likely to spot and stop Air Carrier A's incursion. [This company] often assigns very similar call signs to aircraft which are not only proposed at the same time, but many times Will fly to the same parts of the country and therefore potentially cause issues for multiple controllers as they fly similar or identical routes. Seeing three or four call signs which can all be easily confused for each other is common during departure pushes and even vigilant pilots and controllers fall victim to the resulting confusion routinely. It's a contributing factor that should be removed from the equation. I firmly believe that had I not been preoccupied with sorting out the [similar call sign] confusion, I would have been able to keep a more efficient scan, catch Air Carrier A miss his turn, and prevent an overfly event. Narrative: 2 [Report narative contains no additional information.] Narrative: 3 I was Captain of Air Carrier A. Flight pushed back in night VMC conditions, and we taxied with ramp. During taxi, the First Officer noticed there was a tailwind for takeoff, so he was heads-down dealing with those changes. We also needed to burn off approximately 200- 300 pounds of gas to meet the new takeoff performance. Ground then cleared us to taxi. I looked at the first two pieces of the instructions, and confirmed I would continue on J and make a left turn at Y. Once there, I was going to look to confirm my next actions for the next turn. I made the left 90 degree turn, and noticed an aircraft in line with what I thought was the right runway - the normal landing configuration for east flow. The First Officer also spoke to inform me Of what he was doing, so I had four major things going on: taxiing the airplane, trying to figure my next turn, seeing the airplane to the right, and listening to my First Officer. After I made the turn, and had moved forward some short distance, I looked and cleared to the right and noticed the arriving aircraft was actually lined up and on short final for left runway. I had missed the immediate left turn and entered the path immediately under the arriving aircraft. At first I stopped, and seeing how low the other aircraft was, added power to try and clear the area. Thankfully, the crew of the arriving aircraft was on the ball, saw my aircraft, and began a low-level go-around. ATC also saw this and called for the go-around. I thought the assigned taxiway was still ahead of me, but it would have been a 180 degree turn to enter it. I missed the turn, plain and simple. I complied with further ATC instructions and taxied and held short of the runway. I personally contacted the tower,
apologized for the problem, and asked for their number. This is where the First Officer and I took a moment to gather ourselves. I apologized to him for my mistake, and asked if he was 0k. We took a moment to assess ourselves, and then began the taxi checklist. We slowed the pace to ensure we didn't miss anything, compartmentalized, and moved on. We performed the taxi and below-the-line checklists and departed once we burned down to our required weight. Once we landed and got to the hotel, I called ATC and spoke with a representative. Since the working supervisor had already gone home, I left my contact information and will await their call in the morning. As usual, a number of events lined up to cause this near catastrophe. As Captain I take the lion's share of responsibility. I missed a taxiway turn and put my aircraft, crew, and passengers at grave risk. I also put the same people aboard the arriving aircraft at risk. I could have better managed my First Officer and had him remain heads-up with me since we were taxiing at night, close to a runway being used for arrivals. I felt he was performing his duties very well, so I didn't redirect him. I was unaware that the left runway was being used for arrivals and departures. If I had been cognizant of this, seeing the arriving aircraft where I did would have merited a longer look to determine what it was actually doing. I would have also questioned passing the arrival threshold of the left runway if aircraft were landing. I am a relatively new captain, and I should have taken further steps to ensure the safety and professional conduct of my flight. It's ironic that I told the First Officer not to rush, and that we'd take all the time we needed to manage the changes in takeoff performance. I was trying to keep him in the green, yet he would have been the best asset available to me in preventing me from missing the turn. This is not his fault, it is mine. I wouldn't classify this as a fatigue event, but I was somewhat tired due to how this trip is built. It's a four day trip crammed into three days, and it begins with a red-eye. This sequence flips from red-eye to daytime. I did not feel overly tired for this flight, but I wasn't perfect, either. I've taken pains to slow my pace since I'm a new captain. Apparently, this would have been a great opportunity to slow myself down even more and thoroughly understand my taxi instructions in whole. I looked two steps ahead with our instructions, but that third step was an immediate and important one. I repeated the taxi instructions, and had even written them down, in order to concur with the First Officer. Yet I still missed the turn. I could rely more on the First Officer to provide a protective layer of safety to ensure I make the proper turns and have a heads-up of what the next move is. Better managing my First Officer would have been an excellent way to prevent this from happening. In no way am I throwing First Officer under the bus. I felt he was being diligent on making the changes to takeoff performance. He also does an exemplary job as a First Officer and aviator. I feel like I dragged him into this, as well as my cabin crew and passengers. I could not regret this event any more, and I will do my very best to prevent it, or anything similar, from ever happening again. Synopsis A Tower Ground Controller and flight crew reported an aircraft missed a turn while taxiing and entered the runway approach safety area with an arriving aircraft on short final.
Time / Day Date : 201709 Local Time Of Day : 0001-0600 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ARR.Tower State Reference : IL Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 200 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : ARR Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Light Sport Aircraft Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Takeoff Route In Use : None Airspace.Class D : ARR Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.Tower : ARR Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Skyhawk 172/CutIass 172 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Initial Climb Flight Phase : Takeoff Route In Use : None Airspace.Class D : ARR Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.FaciIity : ARR.Tower Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Ground Function.Air Traffic Control : Supervisor / CIC Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1481256
Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : FBO Function.Flight Crew : Instructor Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 2224 Experience.FIight Crew. Last 90 Days : 64 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 210 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1481794 Human Factors : Training / Qualification Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown. Partyl : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly.Conflict : Ground Conflict, Critical Anomaly Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Runway Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Returned To Departure Airport Result.FIight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I had just taken position as Ground Controller and Controller in Charge. All runways were active and in use. Local Control Aircraft Y in LUAW (Line Up and Wait) on one runway, and also put Aircraft X in LUAW on an intersecting runway. Local Control then cleared Aircraft Y for takeoff. Two pilots transmitted at the same time. It was hard to understand. Local Control was also concerned with another operation and an aircraft 10 miles south requesting an Opposite Direction approach. Aircraft X took off without a clearance. Aircraft Y was airborne and through the intersection when Aircraft X was airborne and about 800 ft from the intersection both approximately the same altitude and climbing. Both Local Control and I were looking at the other runway areas when Aircraft X started take off roll without a clearance from LUAW. I alerted Local Control to Aircraft X taking off. This airport is a small VFR tower with a lot of training pilots. On occasions too numerous to count, pilots have not known or understood LIJAW. My recommendation is to have a pilots meeting to discuss this practice and how to use it safely and properly. At this meeting, we
could also talk to pilots about expectation bias and the importance of making sure you receive a clearance prior to taking action. Narrative: 2 This was dual VFR instruction flight. The student is a finish up preparing In advance of his check ride. As the flight instructor I observed the student's check list usage from pre-flight through startup, taxi, run up. As the flight instructor I observed the student's radio operation and usage from ATIS, ground and tower operations. The student requested from ground the use of a different runway than on the ATIS as the planned flight was to be to the southwest from the airport. Following the run up, we switched to the tower frequency and monitored the frequency. There were several aircraft in the pattern including company aircraft. Our aircraft call sign was Aircraft X. My student called the Tower ready for takeoff. The Tower responded with Aircraft X line up and wait. The student confirmed line up and wait. Moments later, partial frequency congestion on the Tower frequency and incorrect volume setting on the radio, misunderstood, the takeoff clearance for [us]. Upon lifting off, observed a Cessna taking off on an intersecting runway and crossing ahead of our aircraft position. The Tower immediately called our aircraft and alerted us of the pilot deviation stating we were not cleared for takeoff. After takeoff, the student was having audio feedback and volume setting problems and turned off the audio panel twice resulting in no radio reception audio in either headset. I turned on the audio panel each time and instructed the student I have the aircraft. As instructor, I took over the controls and command of the aircraft, and stated we would land and taxi up to the base of the tower for the phone number. I received clearance from the tower to land followed by contact ground when the off runway. As instructor, I called ground control and they provided the local telephone number to call for follow up on the deviation. Synopsis ARR Tower Supervisor and a flight instructor reported that the student pilot took off after having only been cleared to line up and wait.
Time / Day Date : 201709 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : LVK.Airport State Reference : CA Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : LVK Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Small Aircraft, Low Wing, 1 Eng, Retractable Gear Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Takeoff Route In Use : None Aircraft : 2 ATC / Advisory. Tower : LVK Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Small Aircraft, High Wing, 1 Eng, Fixed Gear Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Training Flight Phase : Taxi Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Facility : LVK.TOWER Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Local Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1480969 Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Human Factors : Training / Qualification : Situational Awareness Human Factors Communication Breakdown.Party1 : ATC Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Communication Person : 2
Reference : 2 Location Of Person.FaciIity : LVK.TOWER Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Local Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Developmental ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1480954 Human Factors : Training / Qualification Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Communication Breakdown.Party1 : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Person : 3 Reference : 3 Location Of Person.Aircraft : Y Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.Flight Crew : Instructor Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 545 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 80 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 460 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1481780 Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Situational Awareness Person : 4 Reference : 4 Location Of Person.Facility : LVK.TOWER Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Ground Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1480943 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Conflict : Ground Conflict, Critical Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance : 16 Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Taxiway Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Runway Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : Taxi Result.Flight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.FIight Crew : Rejected Takeoff Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert
Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Result.Air Traffic Control : Separated Traffic Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I was an OJTI (On The Job Instructor) on Local Control and the trainee cleared Aircraft X for takeoff. A few seconds later I observed aircraft X attempting to takeoff on a taxiway. I took over the frequency and told the aircraft to stop. The aircraft picked up the speed and did not respond. I instructed the aircraft to stop 3 more times. The aircraft finally came to a stop without further incident. Pilots need to be familiar with airport markings to prevent incidents like this. I suggest FSDO to be proactive and possibly enforcing age restrictions and stricter licensing requirements, i.e., be able to see and hear and listen to instructions. He was not able to see his license to read us the information when asked. He stated he did not hear our numerous attempts to stop him. Pilots like these pose a great threat to the National Airspace System (NAS) and need to be looked at closely. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Narrative: 3 I was on a training flight with my student and we pulled off the runway on to a taxiway. The taxiway almost immediately intersects a taxiway which is the parallel taxiway to the runway. We pulled past the runway hold short bar and stopped the airplane, but had not switched to ground frequency yet. Over Tower we heard the controller yelling at an aircraft to stop! Stop! Stop! Abort the takeoff you are on a taxiway. We looked down the taxiway and saw the aircraft at full takeoff speed trying to take off on the taxiway. We had no time to take evasive action and cross to get out of their way and thus were forced to hope that they were able to avoid us and that we had not pulled out far enough to be in their way. They passed by us and missed hitting our prop with their left wing by maybe 5 feet. They then made a high speed exit from the taxiway and did a U-turn onto a different taxiway cutting off another aircraft. I cannot be sure why the pilot took off on the taxiway. At the beginning of the taxiway the pavement has 'TAXI' in bold lettering. Listening to the ATC recording it seemed like ATC was having a problem getting them to pull up and hold short of the runway which they may have been confused about. The pilot also mentioned he was going to go back and try again as he taxied back to the runway with no taxi clearance. This made me wonder if they were unfamiliar with towered airports. I highly doubt they did any of his required by 91.103 pre-flight planning familiarizing themselves with the intended runways. Narrative: 4 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis
LVK Tower Controllers and a pilot reported an aircraft began its takeoff roll from a taxiway instead of the runway and when aborting its takeoff taxied without a clearance five feet away from another taxiing aircraft.
Time / Day Date : 201709 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.SingIe Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.VisibiIity : Light : Daylight Ceiling.Single Value : 12000 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal 10 Make Model Name : Piper Twin Piston Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Training Flight Phase : Taxi Route In Use : Direct Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Make Model Name : SR22 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Phase : Final Approach Airspace.CIass G : ZZZ Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.Flight Crew : Instructor Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Experience.Flight Crew. Total : 1050 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 55 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 11
ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1480648 Human Factors : Time Pressure Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly.ConfIict : Ground Conflict, Critical Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Runway Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.HorizontaI : O Miss Distance.VerticaI : 100 When Detected : Taxi Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 A friend and I were doing a flight in the [twin] Piper to go out and perform instrument approaches. We had just finished our run up and received our clearance from Clearance Delivery and were holding short of the runway. There is taxiway maintenance at the airport and a NOTAM in effect that the taxiways north of the FBO were closed and Back- Taxi operations were in effect. The runway in use was Runway X Y. There were approximately 3-4 other airplanes in the pattern either taking-off, in the pattern itself, landing, or taxiing not including myself. As we waited our turn to back taxi, a plane could be heard on the radio as "on a 45 deg entry into the downwind for runway XY" another plane was finishing his back-taxi and was announcing take-off roll. At this point in time, a Cirrus announces a 10 MILE RIGHT BASE for a straight in final for runway XY. (The traffic pattern is a left hand traffic pattern). Another airplane starts his back taxi while the airplane in the pattern announces midfield downwind. Upon the back-taxiing plane reaching the end, the Cirrus reports 6 miles straight in final to follow the traffic on downwind. A plane departs and the downwind traffic calls left base to final for XY. Once that plane lands, I start my back taxi down the runway. The Cirrus calls 3 mile straight in final for runway XY. About 3/4 of the way down the runway, I see the Cirrus on what appears to be a "short final" yet he calls "Cirrus on a 1 mile final". Cirrus says to me "you better hustle" and "are you going to get off the runway?" I reply that the taxiways are closed. He says "well then what are you doing? Get off the runway!" I respond by saying "why can't you enter the pattern like everyone else?" The Cirrus then appears to be continuing his descent and I am afraid he is either going to land on-top of me or over-top of me. He arrests his descent at about 100 feet and 'buzzed' me down the runway and says over the radio "I'm on an IFR arrival!" I tell him "sorry, but this is a busy airport and we're all doing the best we can with the back-taxi operations." He responds by saying, "yeah, well you all can wait for me to land, I called like 10 times" This incident follows a nearly identical incident that I was not a part of, but observed, with the same Cirrus 2 weeks prior with solo students in the pattern. In hind-sight, maybe I could have delayed my back-taxi a little longer, however, the Cirrus was doing a non-standard 10 mile right
base entry into a left hand traffic pattern, and performing a 6 mile straight-in to land to a full traffic pattern with back-taxi operations in effect. Synopsis Flight instructor reported a Cirrus performed a non-standard arrival into a busy non- towered airport while back-taxi operations were active, creating an unsafe situation.
Time / Day Date : 201709 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : MKE.Airport State Reference : WI Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Aircraft Reference : X Make Model Name : No Aircraft Route In Use : None Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Facility : MKE.TOWER Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Local Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Developmental ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1480457 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Ground Personnel Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Ground Conflict, Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Runway Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : Taxi Result.FIight Crew : Executed Go Around / Missed Approach Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 The active runway at the time of the incident was IL. Vehicle X, was working on Runway 7R. The driver said, "When able, I'd like to cross Runway IL to work on the east side of Runway IL on Runway 7R." I replied by saying, "roger." Vehicle X driver responded, "Roger, crossing Runway IL." At this point, Aircraft X was on its takeoff roll on Runway IL. I instructed the vehicle to hold position and, when the driver did not immediately respond, I yelled "stop" several times. Vehicle X stopped and the Local Controller instructed Aircraft
X to abort its takeoff. Vehicle X stopped and Aircraft X exited the runway without further incident. I believe the primary factor in this incident was the driver's misunderstanding of my acknowledgment of his request to cross the runway as an approval to do so. Synopsis MKE Tower Controller reported a vehicle requested to cross a runway, Controller responded with roger, the vehicle moved across the runway which caused an aircraft on the runway to abort their takeoff.
Time / Day Date : 201709 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8737-700 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Landing Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.FIight Crew : Captain Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 574 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1480234 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 625 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1480216 Events Anomaly Conflict : Ground Conflict, Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy
Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Runway Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : Taxi Result.FIight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Approach Control slowed us to final approach speed a couple miles outside FAF, so we configured fully and slowed to 135 knots. We were following a Regional Jet and had them and the runway in sight. Heard another flight check in behind us on the approach. We landed uneventfully on Runway XXR knowing the other aircraft behind us must be close, so I took the first available right turn, [onto] Runway YY. ATC did not tell us to expedite off the runway, but I knew the traffic must be close behind us as we had been doing 135 knots for the last six to seven miles of our approach. Tower Controller saw us turning onto Runway YY and directed us to return to Runway XXR, which I began to do and could have completed safely. Tower then revised the instruction to remain on Runway YY and exit at Taxiway A and contact Ground, which we did. We were informed that another aircraft had been issued a take-off clearance on Runway YY prior to our entering that runway. We were both surprised to learn of that. ATC then rescinded the takeoff clearance of the other aircraft. We completed the taxi to the gate uneventfully. I contacted ATC via the phone number they had given us and provided my name and certificate number per their request. Upon completing the flight, the First Officer and I read the AIM again; specifically part 4-3- 20, which addresses our error in departing an active runway onto another runway. I genuinely believe that would not have occurred had I not been concerned about the aircraft behind us on the approach. I was also surprised to learn that another aircraft on an intersecting runway had been issued a takeoff clearance prior to our passing through that intersecting runway. And, of course, I was concerned that we had created a conflict. I don't know the Controller's responsibilities in that regard and of course I have operated many times when local operations were on intersecting runways, but I do not recollect that happening before. Regardless, we certainly did not intentionally create the conflict and I truly regret my error. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis 3737-700 flight crew reported turning onto an active runway after landing due to concern that traffic close behind.
Time / Day Date : 201709 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : LAX.Airport State Reference : CA Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : LAX Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Large Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Taxi Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory. Tower : LAX Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Large Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Takeoff Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.FIight Crew : Captain Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1480225 Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Situational Awareness Person : 2
Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : Y Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification. Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 15400 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1480227 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Person : 3 Reference : 3 Location Of Person.Aircraft : Y Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1480249 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Person : 4 Reference : 4 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1480248 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly Conflict : Ground Conflict, Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Runway Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : Taxi Result.Flight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.FIight Crew : Rejected Takeoff Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 The F/O landed on Runway 24R in LAX. I took control of the aircraft on the runway, and exited onto Taxiway AA. Tower told us to hold short of 24L. I saw the bars that I thought were the runway clear lines for 24R, just in front of me. I continued forward, focused on a
faded line that I somehow mistook for the hold short line. The F/O said for me to stop. I then noticed the red stop lights. I didn't jam on the brakes, which I should have, as I went past the hold short line. I asked him to tell the Tower that I was past the hold short line. The Tower had cleared [another] aircraft for takeoff around the same time. There was a slight delay for the Tower to tell the aircraft to reject the takeoff. Even with that, the aircraft wasn't very far down the runway. I believe they may have pulled off at Taxiway Whiskey. After that, we were cleared to taxi across Runway 24L and turn left onto Taxiway Echo and taxi and hold just past [taxiway] AA. We were given a phone number to call for a possible deviation. I need to be more alert! I'm sure the F/O assumed I was going to stop at the right place. The F/O said that he was going to push the brakes himself. I told him he should have. I really don't know how this can be prevented in the future as it happened so quickly. Other than help with the brakes when the F/O is seeing something you are not, and vice versa. Totally my fault. Narrative: 2 After initiating takeoff roll on Runway 24L at LAX, we were issued a takeoff cancelled clearance due to an aircraft runway incursion at the departure end of the runway. Reject procedure was accomplished at 110 knots, aircraft was stopped in the first half of the runway, exited runway per Tower instructions. Notified Flight Attendants to remain seated, referenced QRH for any additional rejected takeoff considerations, loaded PWB with reject information to obtain brake cooling requirements, ascertained brake cooling could be accomplished at the gate. Informed passengers of reasons of the event and to convey that there were no problems with aircraft and our plan to return to a gate for brake cooling per our procedures. We contacted LAX Operations and obtained a gate. We parked aircraft at Gate XX with nose chocks and brakes released and contacted Dispatch and Maintenance Control to discuss plan of action and series of events. Maintenance downloaded FDR (Flight Data Recorder) and checked brake energy computations. No injuries to crew, passengers or aircraft. Narrative: 3 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Narrative: 4 We landed on Runway 24R under visual conditions at LAX. I was the Pilot Flying. At 60 knots, the Captain and I transferred controls. The Captain took the aircraft and exited the runway at AA. The Air Traffic Controller asked us to hold short of Runway 24L at AA. I read back the clearance as required. The Captain acknowledged the clearance to me and then called for the flaps up. As I was doing my After Landing Flow I noticed the Captain didn't appear to be stopping. I yelled twice, stop. After the second command to stop the Captain stopped the aircraft, but passed through the hold short line. I immediately notified ATC that we crossed the hold short line because I knew he cleared an aircraft to takeoff on 24L. The Controller told the aircraft on takeoff roll to reject their takeoff. We held our position and then the controller issued us a clearance to cross the runway. We crossed Runway 24L at AA, contacted Ground Control and awaited taxi clearance to the gate. The aircraft that rejected the takeoff roll did so safely. Synopsis Arriving and departing air carrier flight crews reported a runway incursion at LAX which resulted in a rejected takeoff.
Time / Day Date : 201709 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : BWI.Tower State Reference : MD Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : BWI Aircraft Operator : Corporate Make Model Name : Medium Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Landing Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.FaciIity : BWI.Tower Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Local Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1479395 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Ground Personnel Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Conflict : Ground Conflict, Critical : 22 Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Runway Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors
Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 Vehicle requesting to access Runway 33L at departure end in the RSA (Runway Safety Area) and second vehicle checking RSL (Runway Surface Lights) and never cleared the runway while meeting up with other vehicle in RSA and exited vehicle and I allowed Aircraft X to land on Runway 33L. I should have used memory aid to remind me the vehicle never cleared the runway. Synopsis BWI Tower Controller reported allowing an aircraft to land while vehicles were on the runway.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : LAS.Airport State Reference : NV Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Ground : LAS Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Taxi Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 399 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1477638 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 186 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 9677 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1476466
Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown. Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Conflict : Ground Conflict, Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Runway Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : Taxi Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airport Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 It was the last leg. We had an aircraft swap with preceding outbound aircraft at our gate, pushing late, so our arriving aircraft was holding out. When aircraft arrived at gate the entire Crew worked very well to turn the aircraft as close to on time as possible. We pushed four minutes late, not bad, all things considered. The taxi instructions were "Spot 15 contact Ground Control". At Spot 15 we were told "Give way to (other carrier) approaching from left and follow hm via B, D to Runway IR". Neither of us could remember being told to hold short of Runway 26R. There were at least 20 aircraft ahead of us waiting for takeoff. Airport operations were landing and departing Runways IL and IR, and landing 26L. 99 percent of the arriving traffic was landing on IL/I/R. In fact we only recalled one aircraft landing on Runway 26L and no one was departing to the west. As we approached the taxiway intersection of Taxiways "B" and "D", I heard Ground Control talking to a (other carrier) aircraft. The other carrier said that they required Runway 8L for departure. I can't remember the winds at the time, but I think there was a slight wind out of the east. A few minutes later Ground Control informed him that Tower needed him airborne in two minutes, and that he should back-taxi down Runway 26R, (around all other aircraft on Taxiway "B"), and plan to depart Runway 8L at A8. We had just made our turn to the south on Taxiway "D" and I saw the (other carrier) aircraft back taxiing down Runway 26R and maneuvering to turn 180 degrees to depart to the east on Runway 81-. He was hurrying to make the two minute requirement that Ground Control had given him. (Other carrier) was told to contact Tower and I quickly realized that our nose of the aircraft was already over the hold short line for Runway 8L, but we were not across the runway. We were not on Tower frequency yet, so I asked the F/O to switch to Tower frequency to see if they had tried to call us even though we weren't quite to the switch over sign. I stopped the aircraft where we were and then Tower cleared (other carrier) to takeoff on Runway 8L, and the (other carrier) aircraft departed to the east. At no time were we instructed to hold short of Runway 8L by either Ground Control or Tower. However, Runway 8L had just become an active runway, at least from A8 intersection.
The F/O and I monitored both frequencies of Ground and Tower to try and see if any other aircraft were being told to hold short of Runway 8L at Taxiway "D", but did not hear any. In a few minutes we were holding short of Runway IR number one. Tower cleared in "Onto Hold". By the time we were turning into position for departure, tower cleared us for takeoff. We departed to the north and the remainder of the flight was uneventful. Neither the F/O nor I think that we were ever instructed to hold short of Runway 8L, but the hurried departure of the (other carrier) aircraft on run Runway 8L was very confusing. We were not able to see where (other carrier) was until we made the turn onto Taxiway "D", and by then we were already past where I could see the hold short line. (Other carrier) was the only aircraft that we witnessed departing on Runway 8L in the 47 minutes that it took us to taxi out for departure. I think both Tower and Ground Control were rushing to get an "Opposite Direction Departure" off in a very congested and time limited ATC environment and clarification on taxi instructions concerning our particular taxi clearance kinda became second to getting the (other carrier) airborne in the time limit. That's still no excuse for taxiing across a possible active runway without clearance. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis Flight Crew reported being uncertain of the taxi instructions from ground control, causing them to cross a hold short line of an active runway.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : PHL.Airport State Reference : PA Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Ground : PHL Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Large Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Taxi Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 1412 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1475896 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Ground Conflict, Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Runway Detector. Person : Flight Crew Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : Taxi Result.FIight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.Flight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification
Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Result.Air Traffic Control : Separated Traffic Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airport Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Company Policy Narrative: 1 Push off gate, taxi to spot 11 with Ramp, contact ground for taxi to RWY 27L. This requires crossing RWY 27R at TWY N. Contacted Ground and [was] given taxi directions. Also told to "contact Clearance Delivery on your #2 radio." This is, of course, a bad idea as it takes one crewmember out of the loop and offline, so we stopped the aircraft and set the brake to call Clearance Delivery and input/execute the SWAP (Severe Weather Avoidance Plan) route to our destination. Continued taxi with Ground, who takes us up to and short of RWY 27R at TWY N. Ground then clears us to cross RWY 27 R (an active runway being used for all arrival traffic). As we make the turn and start to enter the runway safety area (just past the double hold-short lines) Ground calls us and says "[Company] Stop!" We stop the aircraft and advise Ground that we have fouled their runway. The tower controller sends traffic on short final around. There ensued a less-than-professional radio exchange between us and the ground controller which has been resolved. Safety issues: 1. PHL should Institute a better system for coordinating new clearances. There were SWAP routes in effect for our destination and apparently they don't issue these to the crews until that aircraft is cleared to go. We called Clearance Delivery shortly before push to ask about delays or reroutes (thinking it better to deal with any while parked at the gate) and we were told we'd get any reroutes taxiing out. This is just poor implementation. There is an opportunity after pushing with Ramp to spot 11 where Ramp could send us to Clearance Delivery to get any reroutes, etc. before calling Ground for taxi. This prevents splitting the crew and keeps everyone involved in installing, reviewing and executing the SWAP route changes. This is difficult due to congestion issues but would be much safer. 2. The PHL ground signage depicting taxiways and intersections is bad. Thank god for the JeppPro depiction. 3. The procedure to have a Ground controller issuing active runway crossing clearances adds another layer of complexity and potential conflict to an already dangerous event. PHL needs to have all runway crossings done solely and directly by the controlling tower. In our instance, the Ground controller failed to advise us of inbound traffic for our crossing. Synopsis Air carrier Captain reported distraction while being issued a revised clearance while taxiing. Ground Control provided clearance to cross a runway, but the aircraft was past the hold short lines.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : HNL.Airport State Reference : HI Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility. Visibility Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : HNL Aircraft Operator : Personal : 10 Make Model Name : Skyhawk 172/CutIass 172 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Taxi Route In Use : Visual Approach Aircraft : 2 ATC / Advisory. Tower : HNL Make Model Name : PA-28 Cherokee/Archer/Dakota/Pillan/Warnor Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Phase : Final Approach Airspace.CIass B : HNL Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Private Experience.FIight Crew. Total : 112 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 7 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 34 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Confusion Events 1475056
Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Ground Conflict, Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Runway Detector. Person : Flight Crew Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control Miss Distance.HorizontaI : O Miss Distance.VerticaI : O When Detected : Taxi Result.FIight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Airport Narrative: 1 Airport Chart Or Publication Human Factors After being cleared along the arrival into HNL airport, my aircraft, was cleared to land initially on per the published procedure. As the Tower became aware of another aircraft's intent to land, a PA28, permission was also granted for this aircraft to land at HNL. To make traffic flow more smoothly, the controller amended my clearance from the right runway to now land on the left runway. The Tower controller then cleared the PA28 to land on the right runway. With me now landing on the left, there was no confusion about the simultaneous parallel runway operations that were to then be taking place. With that situational awareness, I initiated a transmission to the tower controller, "[call sign] understands other traffic will now be landing. Right, we will be landing Left." Knowing this situation in advance, I was cognizant that a runway hold-short/cross instruction would likely be necessary after landing given that the parking ramp was located on the other side of the runway. As my suspicions were confirmed, the tower controller exercised a command for my flight to "exit runway via echo and hold short for landing traffic". Acknowledging this instruction, I replied with the appropriate read-back and complied by stopping the aircraft short of the first hold line on the taxiway. After being given permission to proceed by crossing the right runway the controller advised that he believed I had actually crossed the hold short line and that it was the first line I should have held at. The subsequent PA28 landing was then instructed to initiate a Side step maneuver and land the left runway to prevent a possible runway incursion. Despite being told that I crossed the hold short line, the indications on the pavement clearly indicated the first hold short line was the correct holding position by the white lettering on a solid red background which I had, indeed, held at by completing a full stop before the line. From the Pilots perception, an unnecessary hazard was created by possibly confusing the inbound piper pilot to sidestep. With the two hold short lines being positioned so close together as to notify pilots of both runway entries, I believe it may have appeared from the controller's perspective that my aircraft was positioned, in such a way, so that it looked as if I had crossed the holding position without actually doing so.
Given the context that I, the PIC of [my aircraft], notified tower on two occasions of our awareness of the inbound parallel traffic and further confirmation of the holding instructions, the misconstrued position of my aircraft being located over the hold-short line was not indeed true but nevertheless created an undue hazard by the tower controller then executing a last minute change to another aircraft on final approach. To prevent such future incidents, it is the pilots recommendation that the holding positions be separated in such a way so that both; one, The tower controller can avoid confusing which hold-short position an aircraft is actually stopped at, and thereby issuing unnecessary further instructions to other aircraft. And two, so that pilots do not actually confuse the two holding positions by way of their proximity to one another. Whether these issues are created by the tower misconstruing the position of an aircraft relative to a holding line or the pilot confusing the two holding positions, both would benefit from better separation of these runway markings. It may also serve well to install runway cross alert lights, a tower notification system of aircraft crossing a holding position via a "trip wire" type of alert systems, and also the controller providing a "heads up" verbal instruction to notify inbound pilots prior to landing of possible close proximity holding instructions for the parallel runways. When exiting runways, particularly when they are positioned close together so that landing aircraft will not be clear of one active runway before entering another active runway, it may serve to the pilots benefit if they have this forward notice. This is especially true when considering pilots who may be unfamiliar with simultaneous parallel runway operations that are immediately next to one another. Synopsis C172 pilot reported being told by Tower that they had crossed a hold short line. The reporter does not believe he crossed the line.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : SYR.Tower State Reference : NY Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : SYR Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Small Aircraft, Low Wing, 1 Eng, Fixed Gear Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Landing Route In Use : None Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.Tower : SYR Aircraft Operator : Military Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Training Flight Phase : Taxi Route In Use : None Person Reference : I Location Of Person.FaciIity : SYR.Tower Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Local Function.Air Traffic Control : Ground Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Developmental ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1474497 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Confusion Communication Breakdown. Partyl : ATC
Communication Breakdown.Party2 Analyst Callback : Completed Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Ground Conflict, : Flight Crew Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Runway Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : Taxi Result.General : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 I was working the positions of Local and Ground combined. In the tower was another controller working Flight Data Clearance Delivery and he was the Tower CIC as well. There was a significant amount of flow programs being utilized which caused extra workload for the Flight Data position and for myself on the Ground control frequency. On tower frequency was 5 aircraft in the pattern with one of the aircraft being a drone remote piloted aircraft. This is not a normal operation at Syracuse Tower. The average amount of traffic in the pattern is I aircraft. Not only was there 5 aircraft in the pattern, but there were multiple air carrier arrivals into Syracuse as well as another drone. In my opinion, for traffic that was on both the Ground and Local frequencies there needed to be an extra controller in the tower. Unfortunately, due to our staffing this was not an option. The actual event that took place involved Aircraft X who was in the VFR traffic Pattern. Aircraft X was instructed to follow the drone with its chase Aircraft. Aircraft X reported both aircraft in sight and was cleared for the option. Aircraft Y was observed landing while Aircraft X was on a 2 mile final. As Aircraft X touched down the drone was turning off of the runway. The drone drones have to taxi at a specific speed when they are on the taxiways and the runways. Their taxiing speed is significantly slower than any fixed wing aircraft. In my opinion, this was the leading contributor to the runway incursion. I recommend that if there are more than 2 aircraft in the pattern and a drone, there needs to be a standalone CIC or decombine Local and Ground frequencies. An increase in staffing would have allowed for an extra "pair of eyes" for the operation. A standard strip marking procedure for pattern traffic would be helpful to provide a visual aid for increased controller workload. The drone should be taxiing at a much faster pace on the runways and they can slow their taxi speed on the taxiways. A procedure should be in place to address the runway compression that occurs whenever a drone lands i.e. approach separates an arrival further from the drone to make up for the times it takes to get the drone off of the runway Callback: 1 Reporter said the Military is taxiing Military UAV's at airport for training then during the time of this report they were flying them in the tower pattern. Reporter advised that the
military should be doing this somewhere else and not at SYR. Reporter stated the FAA is trying to figure out how to integrate the UAVs in a normal traffic pattern. Synopsis SYR Tower Controller reported a runway incursion due to the MQ-9 UAV taxiing too slow and an arrival landing on the runway while the drone was still exiting.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 100 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : FBO Make Model Name : SR20 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Training Flight Phase : Final Approach Airspace.CIass G : ZZZ Aircraft : 2 ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Vans Aircraft Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission. Other Flight Phase : Takeoff Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : FBO Function.Flight Crew : Instructor Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 600 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 300 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 40 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1474435
Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly.ConfIict : Ground Conflict, Critical Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Runway Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.HorizontaI : O Miss Distance.Vertical : 100 When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 RV pulled out in front of us (knowing he was) when we were on really short final. His radio call "RV departing RWY 34 we will be out before the cirrus". We got the pleasure of side stepping due to us being nearly on top of him. Synopsis SR20 flight instructor reported that another aircraft pulled onto the runway while they were on short final.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : MFD.Tower State Reference : OR Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : MFD Make Model Name : Small Aircraft, High Wing, 1 Eng, Fixed Gear Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Training Flight Phase : Landing Route In Use : None Airspace.CIass D : MFD Person Reference : I Location Of Person.FaciIity : MFD.TOWER Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Local Function.Air Traffic Control : Instructor Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos 1 (yrs) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1473223 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Training / Qualification Human Factors : Situational Awareness Communication Breakdown.Party1 : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Conflict : Ground Conflict, Critical Anomaly.Deviation - Track / Heading : All Types Anomaly Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Runway Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.FIight Crew : Executed Go Around / Missed Approach Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 MFD VFR day, light traffic, very light complexity. Runway 32 closed with men and equipment on Runway 32. No Runway closure signs were placed on Runway 32 by airport management. Runway 14/32 closed was recorded and broadcasting on the ATIS. The mandatory Runway 14/32 closed placard was placed in the local control podium. I was on local control training a developmental. Aircraft X was inbound from the southwest of MFD. MFD approach coordinated a departure corridor inbound and it was approved. Aircraft X was instructed to enter left downwind Runway 23 on initial contact with the tower. As Aircraft X was tracking inbound, he appeared to not be complying with the instruction and the trainee issued a suggested heading of 060 vectors left downwind Runway 23. Aircraft X was informed of traffic departing Runway 23 and Aircraft X appeared to gain bearing of position and began a turn for a left downwind Runway 23. Aircraft X was instructed to resume pilot own navigation and enter left downwind Runway 23. As the trainee and I continued our scan of the airport and other traffic, we scanned back to Aircraft X and Aircraft X appeared to be on a left downwind for Runway 23. The trainee then cleared Aircraft X for the option Runway 23. Aircraft X read back cleared for the option Runway 23. The trainee and i continued our scan towards the other areas of the airport. We both returned our attention to scan Aircraft X and Aircraft X was touching down on Runway 32. The trainee then instructed Aircraft X to abort and climb up immediately men and equipment on the Runway. Aircraft X began to go around immediately after that. A mandatory requirement for Runway closure signs to be placed on Runways that are NOTAM closed by airport management. Synopsis Medford Local Controller reported that an aircraft was touching down on a closed runway and was sent around to avoid men and equipment.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : FRG.Airport State Reference : NY Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : FRG Make Model Name : Medium Large Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Taxi Route In Use : None Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.Tower : FRG Make Model Name : Light Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Takeoff Route In Use : None Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.FaciIity : FRG.TOWER Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Ground Function.Air Traffic Control : Trainee ASRS Report Number.Accession Number . • 1473221 Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Training / Qualification Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : Y Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Corporate Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP)
ASRS Report Number Accession Number : Human Factors : Situational Awareness Person : 3 Reference : 3 Location Of Person.Aircraft : Y Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying 1473392 Qualification. Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (AT P) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1473705 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Conflict : Ground Conflict, Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Runway Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : Taxi Result.FIight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Flight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airport Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I took over the Ground Control position. Ground owned the inactive runway. I worked normally, taxiing aircraft back and forth across the inactive runway on their way to and from the active runway as needed. Due to volume and complexity, the local controller implemented Land and Hold Short (LAHSO) to bring in Aircraft X that had popped up on the radar. He requested runway 01/19 from me and I gave it to him, giving him the bar memory aid. I placed the vertical bars across my strip bays, as is the procedure here as a reminder when you give away your runway. As soon as Aircraft X landed and was rolling past my aircraft holding short, I requested the inactive runway back from local. He verbally gave me back the runway as well as the memory aid and I immediately continued working, removing my vertical bars, putting my Runway bar back in its place and picking up where I left off by crossing the inactive runway with aircraft. He also continued working on getting ready for his next departure, Aircraft Y. In the meantime, Aircraft X, being a large jet, rolled through the main intersection and exited the runway and called me for taxi back to the ramp. Getting him back would require him to now cross over the active runway. I kept my flow going and answered him right away telling him to taxi the same way I would instruct him if I owned the active runway. He seemed uncertain and responded with a crossing involving the Runway. I corrected him
and repeated myself that he taxi via B and cross the active Runway. He read back the instructions and proceeded to begin creeping forward. Almost immediately the Local Controller said, "Wait I'm departing Immediately after that the Controller in Charge (CIC) and another Controller in the tower jumped up and shouted at me to "Stop that guy!" as they pointed to Aircraft X. Realizing what was happening and the mistake I'd made I keyed up immediately and said "Hold short!" as I read the IFR strip for the call sign, then right away keyed up again and more specifically said, "Aircraft X hold short." At the same instant this was happening, the CIC and Controller also shouted at local to cancel Aircraft Y's takeoff clearance. Instantly local canceled Aircraft Y's clearance and instructed him to taxi clear of the runway which he did. Aircraft Y had just begun his roll and stopping was no trouble and likewise for Aircraft X, he had barely begun moving and stopped instantly but he was just over the hold short lines thus fouling the runway. As for why this incident happened, I can only attribute it to lack of practice using LAHSO and switching back and forth between runways in use in such a short amount of time. I had just trained on runway 01 the session prior to this and that was also still fresh on my mind. Leading up to the event was as follows. I certified on ground a few weeks ago and am currently early in my training hours on local. I began my day at XAOO with training on local with Runway 01 being the active. The traffic was extremely busy for me and my trainer took over. As developmental we are expected to follow along, move the strips, do the writing, and otherwise be prepared to jump right back into controlling traffic when your trainer hands it back to you. It's not uncommon to be taken on and off training multiple times during a one hour session as your trainer takes over for a few minutes and then hands the reins back over to you. I was completely immersed in the proceedings during that busy hour and once over, we went downstairs to debrief. This was just past XBOO. My trainer very thoroughly went over mistakes, suggestions, and then we went into the conference room to use the whiteboard for more detailed dissection of the last hour's problems and other similar scenarios. Before we realized it the hour was up. At XCOO another controller going back upstairs to relieve the controllers on position shouted over that he was going up. We wrapped it up and Immediately headed for the elevator to work once more without having taken a break at all that hour. Once upstairs I took over the ground position and began working. The incident happened about half an hour into this session. More familiarity and practice with Land and Hold Short Operations (LAHSO) and everything that it entails is my biggest recommendation at this point. I think adding clear verbal cues during complex operations could help tremendously as well. We already do this sometimes during crossings, verbally announcing "I'm crossing now" (even though it's not required) to double check one final time that we all remember what we agreed to. During LAHSO, something like, "I'm landing 01 now" or "I'm departing 32 now" while everything is still in flux could help clear up any confusion and reaffirm where everything stands. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Narrative: 3 We were a crew of 2 Captains and I was Pilot Flying in the left seat. This was a very busy [day] with many aircraft operations. We waited a good 20 minutes before finally being cleared for takeoff. During our takeoff run at about 50 knots and accelerating, the Tower controller transmitted in a very urgent voice "AIRCRAFT Y CANCEL TAKEOFF CLEARANCE!
CANCEL TAKEOFF CLEARANCE! Traffic is crossing downfield." We executed a rejected takeoff and taxied off the runway. At the time we didn't know exactly what had happened but we surmised that it was probably just some student pilot in a Cherokee that had messed up by crossing a hold short line. I did see a [Aircraft X] downfield but from my viewpoint it looked like it was holding short far down at a taxiway. Later that evening I listened to the Tower and Ground Control recordings and was able to piece together what actually had happened: Aircraft X, had just landed and exited at the same time we were cleared into position and hold on the runway. Aircraft X then called ground control for taxi instructions. The ground controller cleared Aircraft X to "taxi via At the exact same time the Tower Controller cleared us for takeoff. , cross Runway The two controllers failed to coordinate the crossing of the active runway. The mistake was not discovered until someone in the tower noticed our [aircraft] accelerating for takeoff while [Aircraft X] was crossing the hold short line to cross our runway. Yelling and commotion in the tower cab can be heard on the ground frequency tape. The Aircraft X crew didn't know that a plane had been cleared for takeoff because they were on ground frequency and we didn't know that a plane had been cleared to cross the active runway because we were on Tower frequency. The controllers visually caught their mistake and Aircraft X was then told to hold short and we were told to cancel take off. This appears to be a Category B runway incursion. I am actually quite shaken by this incident. Thankfully this happened in VMC and was discovered just in time. If this had been a foggy day or night, there is a very high probability this would have been a fatal high-speed runway collision between two jets. Obviously better coordination in the Tower between Ground and Tower control is needed. I would also suggest that the Ground Controller use the correct runway number, when clearing a plane to cross. Perhaps even emphasize "cleared to cross ACTIVE runway 32." This would put the taxiing crew on increased alert. I'm sure they knew what the active runway was but the ground controller cleared them to cross the intersecting runway. Synopsis A flight crew and Ground Controller reported the Ground Controller taxied them across an active runway that another aircraft was beginning its takeoff roll on.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : EWR.Airport State Reference : NJ Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Night Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : EWR Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8767 Undifferentiated or Other Model Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Taxi Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory. Tower : EWR Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : EMB ERJ 170/175 ER/LR Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Taxi Aircraft : 3 Reference : Z ATC / Advisory.Tower : EWR Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8767 Undifferentiated or Other Model Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Taxi Person : 1
Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : Y Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.Flight Crew : Captain Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1472970 Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Situational Awareness Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.FaciIity : EWR.Tower Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Local Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1473217 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Conflict : Ground Conflict, Critical Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Runway Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : Taxi Result.General : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 After landing in EWR, on runway 4R, we were holding short of 4L on K. Aircraft X was cleared for take off 4L, and then tower told us (Aircraft Y) to cross 4L and contact ground control. Aircraft X was already up to speed and well past (I'm guessing) taxiway N or C. My First Officer read back the crossing instructions but I declined to move. After Aircraft X passed our intersection, I crossed and we switched to ground control. At no point did any part of my aircraft cross the hold short line until after the departing aircraft was well off the ground. Tower and ground were very busy, and I'm not sure they even noticed it. We taxied to the gate with ground. I attempted to call the tower via phone multiple times once off duty, but there was consistently no answer. Coordinating with Dispatch, I obtained a different phone number for their ground control/ops, and I gave them my name and phone number. At the time of this report, I am still waiting for [them] to call me back. I also emailed our Chief Pilot to inform her of the incident. Narrative: 2
Supervisor asked me to relieve local control. I was given a briefing and in the briefing I thought I heard the relieving controller say that he was rolling with a heavy and I could cross at any time. My first transmission was to Aircraft Y, holding short of runway 4L at taxiway K to cross runway 4L, my second transmission was to Aircraft Z, holding short of runway 4L at taxiway m to cross runway 4L. Neither aircraft moved and then I looked up and saw Aircraft X, nose up right before taxiway J. Me not scanning the full runway before Issuing the crossing is what led up to the event. I just took the relieving controller's word for it that I could cross. Be sure to fully scan the runway before issuing a clearance to cross. Synopsis While a controller change was happening, the Local Controller reported crossing two aircraft and did not observe a departing aircraft on the runway. The ERJ170 Captain reported they did not move because they saw the departing aircraft.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : LGB.Airport State Reference : CA Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : LGB Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Takeoff Airspace.CIass D : LGB Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Facility : LGB.TOWER Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Other / Unknown Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control.Time Certified In Pos 1 (yrs) : ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1472489 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Distraction Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Ground Conflict, Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Runway Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : Taxi When Detected : In-flight Assessments 1
Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 Human Factors Procedure I was in the cab and had only been monitoring LC-2 (Local Control) for a few minutes when I observed two separate losses of separation with Aircraft X. First Aircraft Y was cleared to land on RY 25R and was still airborne approximately 50 feet AGL abeam the closed runway 34R when Aircraft X was cleared for take-off RY 30 from LUAW (Line Up And Wait). He was instructed to turn left just after he touched down (when you hear the audio in FALCON remember that when LC-2 instructed Aircraft Y to turn left onto K2, he had just touched down) while Aircraft X was on the role RY30. The second loss of separation was with Aircraft Z the number 2 aircraft on final RY 25R he was over the number of RY 25R as Aircraft X crossed the intersection of RY 25R on RY 30. I believe he was trying to get Aircraft X out for some reason, because I kept hearing him say that he got the release at the worst possible time. I believe the ATC's was aware of the location of all of the aircraft, but spoke as though nothing had happened. The FLM (Front Line Manager) was working CD (Clearance Delivery) combined with CIC (Controller in Charge) and I do not believe he was in any way aware of the events that just took place right next to him. I waited a few minutes after LC-2 was relieved and left the tower to file this report. Although FALCON REPLAY is not as good as eyes on, I thought it might help. I don't know what to do about this, I was watching the whole thing, and I believe the ATCs was completely aware of the rules he was breaking but did it anyway. Synopsis LGB Tower Controller reported two losses of separation by the same Local Controller, who in the reporters mind knew the correct procedure, but did not apply it.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : HPN.Airport State Reference : NY Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : HPN Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Challenger 300 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : IFR Flight Phase : Landing Route In Use : Visual Approach Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory. Tower : HPN Make Model Name : DA40 Diamond Star Flight Plan : VFR Flight Phase : Landing Route In Use : Visual Approach Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.FaciIity : HPN.Tower Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Local Function.Air Traffic Control : Trainee Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Developmental ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1472174 Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Time Pressure Human Factors : Situational Awareness Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.FaciIity : HPN.Tower Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Flight Data / Clearance Delivery Function.Air Traffic Control : Supervisor / CIC Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1472191
Human Factors Human Factors Events : Distraction : Situational Awareness Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Ground Conflict, Less Severe Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Runway Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : Taxi When Detected : In-flight Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 I was training on Local Control, during a busy VFR Friday afternoon. I started falling behind and the On the Job Training Instructor took over the frequency. I continued to assist by managing the strip-board and making rolling calls. Aircraft Y was landing RWY 11, with Aircraft X landing shortly thereafter on RWY 16. Aircraft Y types are normally very slow, with short landing distances, usually able to exit TWY F (1,200 feet), and at most to reach taxi speed and hold short of RWY 16 (2,500 feet). With this preceding experience, it was anticipated that Aircraft Y would be clear of RWY 11 or given taxi-speed hold instructions prior to Aircraft X occupying RWY 16. While Aircraft Y's approach and touchdown appeared normal, it continued down the runway at a higher than expected speed. Aircraft Y advised it was unable to make TWY L (2,500 feet, just prior to the RWY 16 hold line). Aircraft X was able to slow and exit before the RWY intersection. Aircraft Y was able to exit TWY H, inside the RWY intersection. Always have a plan in the event aircraft to not perform the way you expect them to, which still ensures separation. Land and Hold Short Operations, go-around, turns for re- sequencing are a few of the tools one could use. Narrative: 2 I was working Clearance/FIight Data and Controller In Charge when the incident occurred. The tower controller gave Aircraft Y a landing clearance with hold short instructions for Runway 11. Aircraft Y accepted the landing clearance but never read back the hold short instructions. During that time the volume of traffic was high and pilots were stepping on each other to either check in or to ask about their sequence. Aircraft X was on final for runway 16. Both aircraft landed and Aircraft Y on runway 11 and Aircraft X on runway 16. Once Aircraft Y was on taxi speed the controller instructed to hold short of the other runway where Aircraft X was also at taxi speed. Aircraft Y replied unable and went passed the hold short lines and immediately the controller asked Aircraft X if he was able to hold short of Runway 11. Aircraft X was able to exit the runway before the intersection. Unfortunately we work at an airport that people are not accustomed to waiting therefore are constantly asking why the delays, what sequence are they in regards to other airplanes either in front or at the adjacent taxiway etc. complicating and increasing the work load because we now have to give an estimate of time while there are other VFR pilots inbound that need to be radar identified.
Synopsis HPN controllers reported an unsafe operation when a landing aircraft was asked to hold short of an intersecting runway and could not resulting in a ground conflict.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : LGB.Airport State Reference : CA Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 600 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : LGB Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Landing Airspace.Class D : LGB Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory. Tower : LGB Make Model Name : Helicopter Flight Phase : Takeoff Airspace.CIass D : LGB Person Reference : I Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1471749 Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly Conflict : Ground Conflict, Less Severe Anomaly Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Runway Detector. Person : Flight Crew
When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Contributing Factors / Situations : Staffing Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 LGB tower had cleared us for landing on RWY 30. There was no mention of a helicopter on the RWY. At approximately 1500 MSL, I asked the FO (First Officer) if it looked like there was something on the RWY around the numbers. It looked like a black spot in the vicinity of the RWY numbers. The FO said it looked like a rubber mark to him. I concurred. At approximately 600 feet MSL, we saw a helicopter rapidly exiting the runway from the RWY number area towards the adjacent TWY D3. He was clear of RWY at 500 feet MSL. We landed. The FO and I discussed afterwards that we BOTH never saw the helicopter! Tower NEVER said anything either! I called the tower manager to discuss. He told me that the controller on duty was working two helicopters mid field, and four other aircraft in the pattern, excluding us. He said that the helicopter was previously cleared to land on the numbers (30). This implied that he was to exit the runway ASAP afterwards to the nearest taxiway as per the AIM. He never did. He said that the controller assumed he had exited. He said he believed the controller was task saturated. Interestingly, the top of the helicopter was painted black. For some reason it completely blended into the runway environment. The tower manager agreed. Synopsis An Air Carrier Captain reported that while on short final, a helicopter was observed sitting on the end of the same runway. The conflict was resolved in time for the aircraft to land safely.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ATL.Airport State Reference : GA Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : ATL Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : A320 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Taxi Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory. Tower : ATL Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : MD-80 Series (DC-9-80) Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Flight Phase : Taxi Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Engineer Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 23820 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 160 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 7900 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1471141 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown
Human Factors : Situational Awareness Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Ground Conflict, Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Runway Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : Taxi Result.Flight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.FIight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airport Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 We were cleared to leave the ramp and taxi to the runway. We were told our sequence was to follow the MD88 ahead and monitor the tower which we did. Approaching the taxiway the MD88 started taxiing to cross the left runway which was being used as a taxiway as there was a tug pulling an aircraft stopped on the runway. So as previously cleared we continued to follow the aircraft ahead. Approaching the runway Tower called our flight number so I stopped with nose slightly on the runway. My co-pilot then told Tower our clearance was to follow the MD88 and monitor the tower which we were doing. The controller then said he has a phone number to call for possible runway violation. We continued on with no further incident. There was no threat to safety in anyway. The clearance to sequence and follow the MD88 superseded the one given to us on the ramp. We were never told to hold short of a taxiway or the left runway with the second clearance. There was a definite communication failure on both parties, ATC and us. With the tug and aircraft stopped on the left runway the runway was obviously not active. In the future with this type of communication I will clarify the intent. Synopsis A320 Captain reported being issued taxi instructions to follow another aircraft and following the aircraft onto a runway to cross, but that was not ATC's intention.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : PSP.Tower State Reference : CA Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : PSP Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Small Aircraft, Low Wing, 1 Eng, Fixed Gear Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Landing Route In Use : Visual Approach Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Facility : PSP.Tower Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Local Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1470159 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Distraction Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown. Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Ground Conflict, Critical Anomaly.Deviation - Track / Heading : All Types Anomaly Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Runway Detector. Person : Ground Personnel When Detected : In-flight Result.General : None Reported / Taken Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I was on Local Control. Aircraft X inbound wanted to park at an FBO. I gave instructions to make left traffic to the Runway 31L. I had a maintenance vehicle and company on the runway at the time. I decided to change Aircraft X to Runway 31R instead. I told Aircraft X to expect Runway 31R. Pilot read back Runway 31R. I saw the aircraft turning toward the airport at 140 knots. I had an expectation bias that the pilot would do what he said. I got complacent with summer traffic and was talking to other controllers in the Tower Cab. I missed the aircraft landing on the wrong runway and opposite direction. The maintenance vehicle asked if I saw the aircraft that flew over them. And that's when I saw the aircraft rolling out on the runway. Aircraft landed on wrong runway without a landing clearance with vehicles on the runway. Reduce side conversations and increase my awareness through scanning more actively. Synopsis PSP Tower Controller reported not noticing an aircraft land on the wrong runway which had a vehicle on it until the vehicle operator queried the Controller about the aircraft.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : MYR.Airport State Reference : SC Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 500 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : MYR Make Model Name : Small Transport, Low Wing, 2 Recip Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Flight Plan : IFR Flight Phase : Final Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.CIass C : MYR Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory. Tower : MYR Make Model Name : Small Aircraft, High Wing, I Eng, Fixed Gear Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Flight Phase : Taxi Route In Use : None Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Facility : MYR.TOWER Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Local Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos 1 (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1469857 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Distraction Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Ground Conflict, Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Runway Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight When Detected : Taxi : 3.5 Result.Flight Crew : Executed Go Around / Missed Approach
Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Result.Air Traffic Control : Separated Traffic Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 I started my time on position by working Ground/Tower CIC for 0+28 minutes. I was then relieved on Ground so that training may be accomplished on Ground. After the 2 minute overlap, I moved over to Local and remained on Tower CIC for the next 01+09. We were landing Runway 36. Time on position was pretty busy and complex. Numerous arrivals and departures mixed with sightseeing helicopters. There was a lot of frequency congestion during my time on position due to the sightseeing helicopters requesting the routes and an aircraft requesting to cross the approach end of Runway 36 on many occasions. Approximately 40 minutes into my time on Local, Aircraft X checked in 10 miles northwest of the airport on the visual approach Runway 36. At the time, Aircraft Y was taxiing to Runway 36 on the ground frequency. A few minutes later, Aircraft Y called me ready for takeoff. I cleared Aircraft Y for takeoff Runway 36 and to fly runway heading. A minute later, I heard the ground trainee mention that this was not going to work. I looked up and realized that Aircraft X was approximately 1 mile final at 400 feet. Aircraft Y was past the hold short line turning the corner onto the runway. I then told Aircraft X to go around and Aircraft Y to hold his position for a minute. Once they were no longer a factor for each other, I instructed Aircraft X to enter the downwind and re-cleared Aircraft Y for takeoff. Aircraft X was climbing on the go around prior to reaching the runway threshold. At the time of the event, training was in progress on Ground Control. The Instructor and CPC-IT were engaged in a conversation that was work/personal related, but not training related. It did create some distraction. I have suggested many times that during busy summer traffic, sightseeing helicopters should have their own frequency and a separate Local Controller. Not sure if this is a good solution to fix the problem Of confusion that can be created by frequency congestion, but the recommendation is not very welcome when brought up. I have not heard anybody else make any recommendations on how to make the situation better. At the time of this go around, there were a few helicopters making their runs. They all operate at or below 1,200. When there is a lot of congestion, the D-BRITE is very cluttered around MYR which makes it hard to see when aircraft are flying through this area. Aircraft X entered the downwind from the northwest and his tag was lost in all the clutter. That is the only reasoning I can come up with in forgetting that he was there. This is not something I normally do. Synopsis MYR Tower Controller reported an unsafe situation when noticing an aircraft on final after clearing an aircraft for takeoff.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZID.ARTCC State Reference : IN Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 2100 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZID Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Small Aircraft, Low Wing, 1 Eng, Retractable Gear Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Initial Climb Route In Use : None Airspace.Class E : LOZ Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.Center : ZID Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Small Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Final Approach Flight Phase : Landing Route In Use.Other Airspace.Class E : LOZ Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.FaciIity : ZID.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Enroute Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos 1 (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1467660 Human Factors : Situational Awareness : 12.0
Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Facility : ZID.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Enroute Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1467940 Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Conflict : Airborne Conflict 1 (yrs) : 29.0 Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Runway Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Returned To Departure Airport Result.Flight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Aircraft X was on the ground requesting an IFR clearance. I instructed the aircraft to Hold for Release and then issued the clearance and to advise when ready for departure. After listening to the recording of the incident, I did not receive a read back of the hold for release. I then cleared Aircraft Y for an ILS approach. Right after Aircraft Y passed the final approach fix Aircraft X comes Off of opposite direction. I immediately issued a traffic alert to Aircraft Y and he replied that he was looking for traffic. I then issued traffic to Aircraft X to which he replied "we see the traffic passing underneath us. " I informed Aircraft X that his Instructions were to hold for release. I also instructed Aircraft X to maintain VFR. I then advised him of additional traffic inbound to which he replied "we're just going to cancel and return to . I should have been clearer to the aircraft on the ground that he is not released for departure due to inbound traffic. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contains no additional information.] Synopsis
Two ZID Center Controllers reported that an aircraft had been issued an IFR clearance that was supposed to hold for departure, but departed into traffic landing opposite direction.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 0001-0600 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility State Reference : DC Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : Marginal Weather Elements / Visibility Light : Night Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : IAD Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier : IAD.Tower : Windshear Make Model Name : B737 Next Generation Undifferentiated Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Taxi Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.Tower : IAD Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B737 Next Generation Undifferentiated Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Landing Airspace.CIass B : IAD Person Reference : I Location Of Person.FaciIity : IAD.Tower Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Local Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1467288 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Fatigue
Human Factors Human Factors Human Factors Human Factors : Situational Awareness : Time Pressure : Workload : Human-Machine Interface Communication Breakdown.PartyI : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Ground Conflict, Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Runway Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : Taxi Result.Flight Crew : Returned To Clearance Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 I was working LCI [Locall], LC2, Human Factors Procedure Staffing Weather and LC3 combined at the time of the event. The position was combined at LC3 which faces the west side of the airport. This configuration makes working the east side of the airport (RWYIR/19L) difficult. I also had planes on 2 separate frequencies 120.1 which is LCI frequency and 134.42 which is LC3 frequency. This also creates confusion and potential for transmissions being stepped on. There was weather in the area with a thunderstorm over the airport. This added complexity and extra focus necessary to issue weather updates, wind shear alerts, and RVR [Runway Visual Range] readings. I have received many briefings in the last year stressing how important weather dissemination is. This was my major focus during this event which could have lead me to get tunnel vision. I had Aircraft X number I for RWY IR and Aircraft Y number 2 for RWY IR. Both planes were cleared to land and given weather advisories. I was working a departure in position on RWY 30 that was given weather information and was holding in position looking at the weather and deciding if they were able to depart. My attention was on the weather and trying to give accurate information and watching the TDWR [Terminal Doppler Weather Radar] for new wind shear readings because it was continuously changing. Aircraft X had safely landed and missed the last high speed exit (K2) so I instructed them to turn left Jl. At this time Aircraft Y was on a 1.5 mile final and with the speed of Aircraft X continuing down the runway I did not think timing would be a factor. The visibility was drastically reduced and the end of the runway was not visible from the tower. I was relying now on the ASDE-X [Airport Surface Detection Equipment] to insure that Aircraft X had cleared the
runway. I saw what I believed to be Aircraft X committed to the KI exit while Aircraft Y was short final and I allowed them to continue. The Controller in Charge saw Aircraft X's target still on the ASDE-X now at Jl and instructed me to send Aircraft Y around. I issued go around to Aircraft Y and it was too late he had already crossed the landing threshold and responded that they "had already touched down". I then realized my mistake of issuing Aircraft X to turn off the runway at Jl instead of KI which caused confusion to the pilot because JI is 500 feet farther down the runway. I believe Aircraft X was exiting the runway at KI and realized he made the wrong turn and then turned back to comply with my exiting instructions of Jl. This event happened because of an incorrect runway exiting instruction, weather at the airport, the position being combined due to lack of staffing and not recognizing a developing situation due to fatigue. I recommend that when weather is a factor and adds complexity to workload that LCI be separate from LC2 and LC3 and worked from the proper position in the tower. The tower was improperly staffed and I believe with holdover overtime this event could have been prevented. Synopsis IAD Tower Controller reported that a flight crew missed the taxiway turnoff, turned around to exit, causing aircraft on final to be sent around. Instruction was too late and aircraft landed on occupied runway.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : Y90.TRACON State Reference : CT Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 3500 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : BAF Aircraft Operator : Military Make Model Name : Military Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Tactical Flight Phase : Initial Climb Route In Use : Vectors Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.TRACON : Y90 Make Model Name : Small Aircraft Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Flight Plan : VFR Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Vectors Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.FaciIity : Y90.TRACON Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Departure Function.Air Traffic Control : Approach Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control.Time Certified In Pos 1 (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1466234 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Confusion Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly.Deviation - Track / Heading : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Runway Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control
When Detected : In-flight Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 BAF Tower requested release for Aircraft X off Runway 20, my trainee issued a heading 240 degrees and released off runway 20. The pilots called airborne and were issued a climb to 10,000 feet prior to radar identification by the trainee. I observed the primary targets off the wrong direction, apparently departing Opposite Direction Operation (ODO) Runway 2. I overrode my trainee and issued a traffic alert to Aircraft X reference Aircraft Y who was VFR East of the field on vectors to CEF. Aircraft X reported the traffic in sight and that he was clear of them. I verified the number in flight as I was not near the flight progress strip and seeing the second aircraft in flight I issued a traffic alert to [the other aircraft in the flight] as well. The Aircraft X flight continued on without issue. Synopsis A T RACON Controller reported that aircraft were supposed to depart in one direction, but ended up departing in the opposite direction.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : JYO.Airport State Reference : VA Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 5000 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : JYO Aircraft Operator : Personal 10 Make Model Name : PA-34-200T Turbo Seneca 11 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Takeoff Route In Use : Vectors Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.CTAF : JYO Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Cirrus Aircraft Undifferentiated Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Final Approach Airspace.CIass E : PCT Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 4000
Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 25 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 1200 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1466180 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly Conflict : Ground Conflict, Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Runway Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.HorizontaI : 3000 Miss Distance.Vertical : O When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.Flight Crew : Rejected Takeoff Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Departing JYO. Part time Tower closes in the afternoon. Called Ground for clearance. Was informed Tower was closing, Runway 35 was in use and to get clearance from Potomac Approach. Announced taxi to Runway 35 on Unicom and taxied to run-up area. Switched frequencies and got IFR clearance. Was told there was inbound IFR traffic and that we were cleared to go as soon as they arrived. Traffic was on base for 35. They landed and we announced our departure for 35 on Unicom and taxied out. As landing traffic cleared runway we started our takeoff roll. As we rolled I spotted landing lights on short final for Runway 17. I aborted takeoff and stopped the plane well to the side of the runway. The approaching airplane, a Cirrus, landed and taxied Off the runway. We then departed on Runway 35. I do not believe the Cirrus ever saw us. We did not hear him call position or intentions on Unicom. The wind favored Runway 35 and that was the direction all traffic had been landing according to the Tower before it closed. The runway is long and neither airplane was in jeopardy as the Cirrus stopped in a short distance and exited the runway. But had I not seen them in the distance it could have been much closer. Synopsis PA34 pilot reported rejecting takeoff after observing unannounced traffic on short final landing on the opposite direction runway.
