ASRS Database Report Set Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) Reports Report Set Description. .. ...A sampling of reports involving Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) events. Update Number ......11 Date of Update . ..Februa1Y 28, 2018 Number of Records in Report Set........................50 Number of New Records in Report Set ...............50 Type of Records in Report Set.. ......For each update, new records received at ASRS will displace a like number of the oldest records in the Report Set, with the objective of providing the fifty most recent relevant ASRS Database records. Records within this Report Set have been screened to assure their relevance to the topic.
National Aeronautics and Space Administration Ames Research Center Moffett Field, CA 94035-1000 TH: 262-7 MEMORANDUM FOR: Recipients of Aviation Safety Reporting System Data SUBJECT: Data Derived from ASRS Reports The attached material is furnished pursuant to a request for data from the NASA Aviation Safety Reporting System (ASRS). Recipients of this material are reminded when evaluating these data of the following points. ASRS reports are submitted voluntarily. The existence in the ASRS database of reports concerning a specific topic cannot, therefore, be used to infer the prevalence of that problem within the National Airspace System. Information contained in reports submitted to ASRS may be amplified by further contact with the individual who submitted them, but the information provided by the reporter is not investigated further. Such information represents the perspective of the specific individual who is describing their experience and perception of a safety related event. After preliminary processing, all ASRS reports are de-identified and the identity of the individual who submitted the report is permanently eliminated. All ASRS report processing systems are designed to protect identifying information submitted by reporters; including names, company affiliations, and specific times of incident occurrence. After a report has been de-identified, any verification of information submitted to ASRS would be limited. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration and its ASRS current contractor, Booz Allen Hamilton, specifically disclaim any responsibility for any interpretation which may be made by others of any material or data furnished by NASA in response to queries of the ASRS database and related materials. Linda J. Connell, Director NASA Aviation Safety Reporting System
CAVEAT REGARDING USE OF ASRS DATA Certain caveats apply to the use of ASRS data. All ASRS reports are voluntarily submitted, and thus cannot be considered a measured random sample of the full population of like events. For example, we receive several thousand altitude deviation reports each year. This number may comprise over half of all the altitude deviations that occur, or it may be just a small fraction of total occurrences. Moreover, not all pilots, controllers, mechanics, flight attendants, dispatchers or other participants in the aviation system are equally aware of the ASRS or may be equally willing to report. Thus, the data can reflect reporting biases. These biases, which are not fully known or measurable, may influence ASRS information. A safety problem such as near midair collisions (NMACs) may appear to be more highly concentrated in area "A" than area "B" simply because the airmen who operate in area "A" are more aware of the ASRS program and more inclined to report should an NMAC occur. Any type of subjective, voluntary reporting will have these limitations related to quantitative statistical analysis. One thing that can be Imown from ASRS data is that the number of reports received concerning specific event types represents the lower measure of the true number of such events that are occurring. For example, if ASRS receives 881 reports of track deviations in 2010 (this number is purely hypothetical), then it can be known with some certainty that at least 881 such events have occurred in 2010. With these statistical limitations m mind, we believe that the real power of ASRS data is the qualitative information contained in report narratives. The pilots, controllers, and others who report tell us about aviation safety incidents and situations in detail — explaining what happened, and more importantly, why it happened. Using report narratives effectively requires an extra measure of study, but the knowledge derived is well worth the added effort.
Report Synopses
ACN:1505072 (lof50) Synopsis UAV Operator reported loss of aircraft control resulting in ground impact with some damage to the I-JAV. ACN: 1505053 (20f50) Synopsis Super Decathlon pilot reported inadvertently climbing into Class C airspace while avoiding what was probably a UAV in the vicinity of OMN airport. ACN:1502686 (30f50) Synopsis A321 flight crew reported being distracted by reports of a drone on departure from LAX. ACN: 1501248 (40f50) Synopsis A B737 Captain reported a near miss with a drone. ACN: 1501117 (50f50) Synopsis C172 flight instructor reported a NMAC with a UAV at 6500 in the vicinity of LAS airport. ACN: 1501108 (60f50) Synopsis A ground observer reported a UAV was operated at night over a group of people in a public park. ACN•. 1500686 (70f50) Synopsis CE-680A Captain reported a NMAC with a UAV on approach to MKE Runway 25L. ACN: 1500518 (80f50) Synopsis PA28 pilot reported a NMAC with a UAV on approach to 119. ACN: 1500289 (90f50)
Synopsis BE35 pilot reported a NMAC with a UAV at 7500 ft in the vicinity of TRL airport. ACN: 1499604 (100f50) Synopsis A Small Transport Captain reported a NMAC with a UAV operating in Boston Class B airspace without ATC knowledge. Pilot reported incident to A90 Departure, and Massachusetts State police. ACN: 1498437 (11 Synopsis CRJ-900 Captain reported a NMAC with a UAV on approach to CLT. ACN: 1495784 (120f50) Synopsis UAV Operator reported losing control of the aircraft following an undetermined significant failure that resulted in the UAV crashing to the ground. ACN: 1495469 (130f50) Synopsis An air taxi turboprop Captain reported being advised by air traffic control of possible birds in the vicinity of his aircraft. It appeared the target was actually a drone operating nearby, however it did not appear to be a threat, and no evasive action was required. ACN: 1495076 (140f50) Synopsis UAS Operator reported a NMAC with an unidentified small aircraft in VMC at low altitude over coastal bluffs. ACN: 1492509 (150f50) Synopsis CL300 Captain on approach to SMO reported a NMAC with two UAVs. ACN: 1491696 (160f50) Synopsis Phantom Pro 4 UAV Operator reported a collision with a tree during climb. ACN: 1490870 (170f50)
Synopsis Air carrier Captain reported sighting 2 UAVs while conducting an approach at LGA. The event was reported to ATC, however no evasive action was taken. ACN: 1489988 (180f50) Synopsis SR22 pilot reported a NMAC with a drone while on a visual approach to CMA at 4000 ft. ACN: 1489642 (190f50) Synopsis CRJ200 Captain reported a close encounter with a UAV at 4000 feet on the downwind leg for Runway 27R at ORD. ACN: 1489568 Synopsis Air carrier flight crew reported a close encounter with a "fixed wing drone" at 4000 ft while on left downwind to Runway 22 at LGA. ACN: 1489475 (21 of50) Synopsis CE560 Captain reported a near miss with a IJAV. ACN: 1488815 (22 of50) Synopsis UAV operator reported unauthorized operation of a drone in close proximity to a moving freight train. ACN: 1487433 (23 of50) Synopsis A ground observer reported noticing a UAV was operating near the stage at a concert event. ACN: 1486594 (240f50) Synopsis DAY Controller reported a drone pilot operated a drone in violation of their Authorization Request. ACN: 1485944 (250f50)
Synopsis Helicopter pilot reported sighting a drone over the Griffith Park Observatory while operating at 600 AGL. The pilot altered his climb to avoid the drone. ACN: 1485237 (26 of50) Synopsis A contracted drone operator reported he was alerted by the drone's sensors that he may have penetrated Class E airspace. He immediately terminated his video photography and exited the area. ACN•. 1485168 (270f50) Synopsis CRJ-200 Captain reported observing a UAV during climbout from PHL. ACN: 1484868 (28 of50) Synopsis EMB-145 Captain reported a NMAC with a UAV shortly after takeoff from PHL. ACN: 1484734 Synopsis FAR Local Controller reported an operation involving a military UAV that was being conducted not in accordance with the LOA. ACN: 1484444 (30 of50) Synopsis JCF T RACON Controller reported issues with a drone pilot and the possibility of flying a clearance that was supposed to be flown later. ACN: 1483563 (31 of50) Synopsis A commercial UAV operator reported that a fixed wing aircraft descended and circled near their drone, interrupting a photo shoot. ACN: 1482595 (32 of50) Synopsis Helicopter pilot reported a NMAC with a UAV shortly after takeoff from a hospital. ACN: 1482511 (330f50)
Synopsis 3737 flight crew reported a NMAC with a UAV on approach to PDX. ACN: 1482331 (340f50) Synopsis A320 Captain reported a NMAC with a UAV on approach to LAX. ACN: 1481428 (350f50) Synopsis Corporate jet Capatin reported a close encounter with a quadcopter UAS on approach to MKC. ACN: 1480323 (360f50) Synopsis CRJ700 Captain reported a NMAC with a UAV 20 NM south of LGA at 3500 ft. ACN: 1480099 (370f50) Synopsis UAV Operator reported losing radio connection with their UAV on a commercial photography mission. It has not been recovered. ACN: 1479955 (380f50) Synopsis EMB-175 Captain reported a NMAC with a UAV on approach to LAX at 9000 ft in the vicinity of FUELR. ACN: 1477824 (390f50) Synopsis UAV operator reported operating within the borders of Class E airspace. ACN: 1476521 (400f50) Synopsis CRJ-700 flight crew reported a NMAC with a UAV climbing out of LGA. ACN•. 1476358 (41 Synopsis
UAS pilot previously registered a toy UAS as per FAR 107, but the FAA website did not allow him to register a newly purchased Phantom 4 Pro. The UAS was flown then subsequently registered as a commercial UAS. ACN•. 1475371 (420f50) Synopsis CRJ-200 Captain reported a NMAC with a UAV on approach to LGA in the vicinity of DIALS. ACN: 1474497 (430f50) Synopsis SYR Tower Controller reported a runway incursion due to the MQ-9 UAV taxiing too slow and an arrival landing on the runway while the drone was still exiting. ACN: 1474478 (440f50) Synopsis Pilot tying down his aircraft reported sighting a drone flying over parked aircraft at MYF at night. No NOTAMs were in effect for these flights. ACN•. 1473457 (450f50) Synopsis CRJ-200 Captain reported a NMAC with a UAV on a visual approach to JFK Runway 221-. ACN: 1472399 (460f50) Synopsis Air carrier Captain reported a close encounter with a UAV on climbout from JFK Runway 31L after being informed by Departure Control that the preceding aircraft had reported sighting a drone. ACN: 1471822 (470f50) Synopsis UAV Operator reported misprograming the UAV causing it to descend unintentionally. ACN: 1471566 (480f50) Synopsis ZZZ Tower Controller reported a military UAV exited the Delta airspace against current agreements between the FAA and military. ACN: 1470548 (490f50)
Synopsis 3737 First Officer reported a shiny object passed very close to the right engine while level at 15000 ft during an EWR departure. ACN: 1470425 (500f50) Synopsis Agriculture aircraft pilot reported a near miss with a UAV approximately 10 miles southeast of LRJ.
Report Narratives
Time / Day Date : 201711 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.SingIe Value : 120 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 3000 Aircraft Reference : X Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Operating Under FAR Part.Other Flight Plan : None Mission : Test Flight Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use : None Airspace.CIass G : ZZZ Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person : Gate / Ramp / Line Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.Ground Personnel : Other / Unknown Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 779 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 3 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 2 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1505072 Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Ground Strike - Aircraft Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Loss Of Aircraft Control Detector. Person : Other Person When Detected : In-flight Result.Aircraft : Aircraft Damaged Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 The V-IOET Unmanned Aircraft System had just completed getting some minor upgrades to the tail rotor system with a new motor to replace an older motor that had a bearing fail. On top Of that it was running new code that changed how lost comms got handled so that we would not land on top of a payload carried in sling load. We had run the code in the simulator and with the tweaks, we were happy with the performance. We did a ground run of the helicopter to cycle the new batteries that we had purchased and to exercise the tail motor, which yielded nominal change in the performance. I flew the V-IOET starting with just a normal return to service flight with maneuvering in fully stable and mission mode to run our lost comms plan to validate if it did execute the maneuver as planned. The landing plan in mission mode seemed rather aggressive but not out of control. We wanted to try it again but closer, so we flew the landing plan right in front of us. The Helicopter seemed less aggressive but when arriving at the second waypoint in the plan we experienced a loss of main rotor RPM with the piccolo flight control system commanding full up pitch collective, effectively stopping the main rotor blades. With the altitude we had and almost zero forward airspeed, an autorotation was not possible from a pilot override. Post-crash inspection showed only damage to the side frames of the helicopter, main rotor, tail rotor and swash arms. The repair cost was under 500 dollars for the items that needed repair or replacement. Our internal investigation revealed we had a connector failure due to the new batteries being able to provide more current when needed then our old set of batteries. This caused the main flight battery connector to heat up and melt when the current draw increased beyond what the connectors where rated for. It was a combination of new batteries, new software that was more aggressive, and connectors that where sub-par for what was needed with the new software. Synopsis UAV Operator reported loss of aircraft control resulting in ground impact with some damage to the UAV.
1-—'--111-+1. Time / Day Date : 201712 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : OMN.Airport State Reference : FL Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 900 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Night Ceiling.SingIe Value : 12000 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : DAB Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Decathlon 8KCAB Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Climb Route In Use : Direct Airspace.CIass C : DAB Airspace.Class E : DAB Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y 10 Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Operating Under FAR Part.Other Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass E : DAB Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 7000 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 50 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 200
ASRS Report Number Accession Number : Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Airspace Violation : All Types Anomaly Conflict : NMAC Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.Horizontal : 10 Miss Distance.VerticaI : 5 When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments 1505053 Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 While climbing out, I saw what appeared to be a small (less than 5 ft in size, may have been round) unlit unknown airborne object in flight path from the corner of my eye at the last second. Unfortunately, I am unable to describe the object better. While avoiding the object, my aircraft may have inadvertently climbed into Class C airspace prior to establishing 2 way radio communication. Synopsis Super Decathlon Pilot reported inadvertently climbing into Class C airspace while avoiding what was probably a UAV in the vicinity of OMN airport.
Time / Day Date : 201712 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : LAX.Airport State Reference : CA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 12000 Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : SCT Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : A321 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Climb Route In Use.SID : DOTSS2 Airspace.Class E : SCT Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Airspace.CIass E : SCT Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1502686 Human Factors : Distraction Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain
Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1502692 Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Ambiguous Narrative: 1 Airspace Structure Environment - Non Weather Related Human Factors Departing LAX, DOTSS 2 departure assigned 5000 ft. We were give several turns and then direct PEVEE climbing to 9000 ft then 12000 ft then issued "climb via SID" then FL230. While in the turn to PEVEE the preceding aircraft reported sighting a drone at 13000 ft. We wanted to clarify the climb via instruction and get a vector left to avoid the area of the drone sighting. Once the Captain was able to finally ask for clarification the controller issued a climb to FL230 and stated "you're not going to make that climb restriction here's the number to call for a pilot deviation." We were still at 12000 ft and approximately 17 NM from the 15000 ft or above restriction at DOTSS when he made that pronouncement. We ended up crossing DOTSS at approximately 17000 ft. After speaking with a supervisor at the SoCal ATC faculty, it seems the controller was a bit task saturated with the drone in the area and coordinating with other aircraft. He also stated there was no violation. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis A321 flight crew reported being distracted by reports of a drone on departure from LAX.
Time / Day Date : 201712 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : LAX.Airport State Reference : CA Relative Position.Angle.Radial : 072 Relative Position. Distance. Nautical Miles : 33 Altitude.MSL.SingIe Value : 9100 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : SCT Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8737 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Nav In Use.LocaIizer/GIidesIope/ILS : Runway 25L Flight Phase : Descent Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use.STAR : ANJLL Airspace.CIass B : LAX Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Aircraft Operator.Other Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Operating Under FAR Part.Other Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass B : LAX Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.Flight Crew : Captain Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 2404
ASRS Report Number Accession Number : Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Conflict : NMAC Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR 1501248 Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Object Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 Aircraft Human Factors During descent on the STAR and cleared for the ILS Approach, at approximately 9300 feet, the First Officer saw a white drone pass under our right wing at approximately 9100 feet. Synopsis A B737 Captain reported a near miss with a drone.
Time / Day Date : 201712 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : LAS.Airport State Reference : NV Relative Position.Angle.Radial : 100 Relative Position. Distance. Nautical Miles : 2 Altitude.MSL.SingIe Value : 6500 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : L30 Aircraft Operator : FBO Make Model Name : Skyhawk 172/Cutlass 172 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Training Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use : Vectors Airspace.CIass B : LAS Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Operating Under FAR Part.Other Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass B : LAS Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : FBO Function.Flight Crew : Instructor Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 864 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 181 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 498
ASRS Report Number Accession Number : Human Factors : Situational Awareness 1501117 Events Anomaly.Conflict : NMAC Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.HorizontaI : 150 Miss Distance.VerticaI : O When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 The problem was a near mid air collision with small drone at 6500 MSL that appeared to be moving southerly while my airplane was flying a magnetic heading of 200 approximately. Our lateral separation was between 150-200 feet. We were in the immediate vicinity Of LAS, almost directly above the approach end of Runway 26L. The drone was yellow in color and circular, at most 3 feet in diameter, and did not appear fixed wing. It appeared to have some kind of design/camera at its center. We were receiving radar vectors from Las Vegas TRACON. I was scanning visually while my student was under the view limiting device. We made no evasive action, there was merely a second between the time I saw the drone and it's passing of our position. I queried Las Vegas Approach if there was any drone activity in the area, they responded there was not, I then proceeded to describe the situation, to which they asked questions regarding the drone's altitude and flight path, and prior to our hand off they said they had made a report. This near mid air collision was no fault of Las Vegas Approach or my own, rather the drone operator who violated the airspace. Synopsis C172 flight instructor reported a NMAC with a UAV at 6500 in the vicinity of LAS airport.
Time / Day Date : 201712 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : STP.Airport State Reference : MN Relative Position. Distance. Nautical Miles : 4 8 Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 100 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : 10 Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Operating Under FAR Part.Other Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass D : STP Person Reference : I Location Of Person : Hangar / Base Reporter Organization : Personal Function. Other Qualification.FIight Crew : Private Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 130 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : O Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 120 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : Human Factors : Situational Awareness : Training / Qualification Human Factors Events 1501108 Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Detector. Person : Observer When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1
A small unmanned aerial systems operator was flying a multi rotor copter at night over non-participating people at [a park] in St. Paul. The operator did not maintain situational awareness and line of sight at all times as the air vehicle passed behind trees. The waterfowl in the area were disturbed by the presence of the sUAS and moved away from the sUAS. Como Lake serves as a visual reporting point for approach to St. Paul Downtown Airport. The operator was on the east side of the lake on a peninsula jutting out into the lake just inside the Class D airspace for St. Paul Downtown Airport. The sUAS was equipped with nonstandard aircraft lighting. A person with me stated they saw a second sUAS without any aircraft lighting. I was unable to see the second one. The lighted aircraft stayed over nonparticipating people for about a minute. Synopsis A ground observer reported a UAV was operated at night over a group of people in a public park.
Time / Day Date : 201712 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : MKE.Airport State Reference : WI Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : MKE Make Model Name : Citation Latitude (C680A) Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : IFR Nav In Use.LocaIizer/GIidesIope/ILS : Runway 25L Flight Phase : Initial Approach Airspace.Class C : MKE Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Operating Under FAR Part.Other Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass C : MKE Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.FIight Crew : Captain Qualification Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (AT P) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1500686 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Conflict : NMAC Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.General : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors
Narrative: 1 I spotted a drone which appeared to be a quadcopter go right underneath us on the localizer. It appeared to go underneath us a hundred feet or so going the opposite direction. I was right off the coast over Lake Michigan off the 25L localizer MKE. Always keep an eye out at low altitude. Synopsis CE-680A Captain reported a NMAC with a UAV on approach to MKE Runway 25L.
Time / Day Date : 201711 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : 119.Airport State Reference : OH Relative Position.Angle.Radial : 275 Relative Position. Distance. Nautical Miles : 7 Altitude.MSL.SingIe Value : 2500 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.VisibiIity : 10 Light : Daylight Ceiling.Single Value : 10000 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : 119 Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : PA-28 Cherokee/Archer/Dakota/PiIIan/Warrior Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Descent Route In Use : Direct Airspace.CIass E : CMH Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part.Other Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass E : CMH Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 900
Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 5 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 100 ASRS Report Number.Accesslon Number . • 1500518 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Conflict : NMAC Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.Horizontal : 100 Miss Distance.Vertical : 15 When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 During descent for landing at 119, at approximately 2500 ft MSL over populated area, I observed a small black dot at my same altitude, and I o'clock from my position. I banked slight left to avoid the object. As I passed the object, I observed what appeared to be a stationary drone of the hobby store variety. I felt this to be a very dangerous activity on the part of the drone operator that could easily have ended in loss of life or severe damage to the aircraft if I had not seen it in time to maneuver away. Synopsis PA28 pilot reported a NMAC with a UAV on approach to 119.
Time / Day Date : 201711 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : TRL.Airport State Reference : TX Relative Position.Angle.Radial : 245 Relative Position. Distance. Nautical Miles : 6 Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 7500 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.VisibiIity : 10 Light : Daylight Ceiling.Single Value : 12000 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Bonanza 35 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Direct Airspace.Class E : DIO Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Operating Under FAR Part.Other Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass E : DIO Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Private Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 400 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 25 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 200 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1500289 Human Factors : Situational Awareness
Events Anomaly Conflict : NMAC Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.Horizontal : O Miss Distance.VerticaI : 500 When Detected : In-flight Result.General : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Departed GPM at 2500 with a southerly heading until clear of Cedar Hill (all the big towers). Once clear, I started to turn left to overfly JWY and climb to 3000. After Class B, I started my climb to 7500 toward the Little Rock area. I was using Terrell (TRL) as a fix and a check for weather (altimeter) when I noticed something that looked like a bird. Since I fly a lot in the SGT area, I see a lot of birds of different types - and I thought I was seeing a bird at first. I thought - good, I'm higher and the bird should not be a factor. Then I tried to re-focus my eyes as the movement wasn't quite like a bird - close, but not the same. Worse, my brain was not making sense of what kind of bird this might be as I was trying to "see" a black vulture. What my eyes kept telling me is this black vulture had four evenly space red dots (as a square) on its back! Then I got mad - that's a drone. And since I don't know a lot about them, I have no way to process how close the drone was. My best guess is within 500 ft. My position: about 6 miles southwest of TRL at 7500 flying a magnetic heading of 065. Synopsis BE35 pilot reported a NMAC with a UAV at 7500 ft in the vicinity of TRL airport.
Time / Day Date : 201711 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : BOS.Airport State Reference : MA Relative Position.Angle.Radial : 162 Relative Position. Distance. Nautical Miles : 7 Altitude.MSL.SingIe Value : 2700 Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : A90 Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Small Transport, Low Wing, 2 Recip Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Climb Airspace.Class B : BOS Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Operating Under FAR Part.Other Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass B : BOS Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1499604 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly Airspace Violation : All Types Anomaly Conflict : NMAC Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR
Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.Horizontal : 200 Miss Distance.VerticaI : 200 When Detected : In-flight : Weather / Turbulence Result.GeneraI : Police / Security Involved Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 During climb out, I was about 2700 feet, 6-8 miles South-Southwest of Boston, I believe over the Quincy/Braintree area, I came within a couple hundred feet of drone. It was about 2 feet by 2 feet in size, black, four blade, and was rocking back and forth in the turbulence. I reported it to Boston Departure. The next controller followed up with more questions about it. After arriving at my destination, I was told to contact the Massachusetts State Police. I called and just verified what I told ATC. Synopsis A Small Transport Captain reported a NMAC with a UAV operating in Boston Class B airspace without ATC knowledge. Pilot reported incident to A90 Departure, and Massachusetts State police.
Time / Day Date : 201711 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : CLT.Airport State Reference : NC Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 3000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Dusk Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : CLT Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Regional Jet 900 (CRJ900) Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.Class B : CLT Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Operating Under FAR Part.Other Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass B : CLT Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1498437 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly Conflict : NMAC Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR
Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.General : Police / Security Involved Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Coming through approximately 3,000 ft on the visual approach to runway 23 in CLT noticed a drone pass by my window and off the wingtip of the aircraft by about 5 to 10 feet. It was dusk and I could not tell what type or the configuration of the drone but it did have a navigation light on it and some type of strobe/anti-collision light. I notified ATC immediately and after reaching the gate I contacted CLT Approach via phone as instructed. I was told that three aircraft behind us also reported seeing the drone and that they had shut down runway 23 approaches and gone to a parallel south operation. They also advised that the [the local] police helicopter had been dispatched and was able to find an approximate location. Drones should have flight restrictions programmed into their software. Synopsis CRJ-900 Captain reported a NMAC with a UAV on approach to CLT.
Time / Day Date : 201711 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 2000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 12000 Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : FBO 10 Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Operating Under FAR Part.Other Mission : Utility Flight Phase : Descent Airspace.CIass E : ZZZ Person Reference : I Location Of Person : Hangar / Base Reporter Organization : FBO Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Function.Ground Personnel : Other / Unknown Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 25 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1495784 Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Ground Strike - Aircraft Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Loss Of Aircraft Control Detector. Person : Ground Personnel Were Passengers Involved In Event : N When Detected : In-flight Result.Aircraft : Aircraft Damaged Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 I am part of a research team. For this research project, we use [UAV] aircraft to measure atmospheric conditions. For our flights, the [UAV] climbs vertically from the takeoff point to 2,500 feet AGL. It then descends back to the takeoff point to land. As Pilot in Command for these flights, my responsibility is the same as PIC of a manned aircraft. I ensure that the aircraft is operated according to procedures, I ensure that safety is considered at all times, I watch the aircraft and scan the area for other air traffic. I have full authority under 14 CFR 91.3 to end the flight or take any other action I see fit at any time. I do not, however, manipulate the controls. A separate [UAV] operator does so under my supervision and under my authority. The incident in question occurred during descent from the 8th flight of the day. The previous 7 had gone perfectly, without incident. On this flight, during descent, the rotors and motors sounded different than they usually do during this phase of flight. Believing this to be nearby air traffic, I quickly scanned the area. Seeing no traffic, I returned my line of sight to the [UAV], which was descending more quickly than normal. Suddenly, a large cloud of smoke emanated from the [UAV]. All personnel on the ground moved away from the [UAV], which fell to the ground and landed in a patch of grass. Synopsis UAV Operator reported losing control of the aircraft following an undetermined significant failure that resulted in the UAV crashing to the ground.
Time / Day Date : 201711 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : SLC.Airport State Reference : UT Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 5000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Night Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : SLC Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Light Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turboprop Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : IFR Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.CIass B : SLC Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Operating Under FAR Part.Other Airspace.CIass B : SLC Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial ASRS Report Number.Accession Number . • 1495469 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Distraction Events Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Detector. Person : Flight Crew Other / Unknown
When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Primary Problem : Airspace Structure Narrative: 1 During a night, visual approach, ATC advised us of a radar return at our "2 0'clock". They said it could possibly be birds. I, being pilot monitoring, began to visually scan because the pilot was focusing on our soon to be landing. I spotted a stationary red beacon abeam our wing and about 1-2 miles at our altitude (5,000 ft). I ultimately decided it was either a drone or a helicopter much further away. I asked tower if there was a helicopter to the east and they said negative. I told them the position of the drone and they confirmed that's where the return was coming from. As for us and our flight path the drone was not close enough to be a threat, but if we were approached runway 35 or even 32 it would have been much closer. The only thing I could think of is to get a more precise description of the position of the drone. It was difficult preparing for landing and tending to this situation simultaneously. Synopsis An air taxi turboprop Captain reported being advised by air traffic control of possible birds in the vicinity of his aircraft. It appeared the target was actually a drone operating nearby, however it did not appear to be a threat, and no evasive action was required.
Time / Day Date : 201710 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Altitude.MSL.SingIe Value : 244 Environment Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility • Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 10000 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Personal 6 Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Operating Under FAR Part.Other Flight Plan : None Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : None Airspace.CIass G : ZZZ Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Small Aircraft, Low Wing, I Eng, Fixed Gear Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass G : ZZZ Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Reporter Organization : Personal Function. Other. Other Qualification. Other Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 22 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 10 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 22 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1495076 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly Conflict : NMAC Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy
Detector. Person : Other Person Miss Distance.HorizontaI : 200 Miss Distance.Vertical : 100 When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 While flying my UAS along the shore. I experienced a near miss with a low flying aircraft. I was taking pictures of the surf and cliffs for my photography portfolio. I was flying a UAS. I launched from the parking area overlooking the beach, altitude about 7 Ift MSL. Visibility was reported as greater than 10 NM, winds less than 4 MPH. Although visibility along the beach was unlimited to the South, [it was] about .9 Miles to the North. I had completed filming and had instituted the automated Return-To-Home procedure. In this mode the aircraft climbs to its designated RTH altitude and autonomously flies back and lands at its launch or "Home" point. Although on autopilot the aircraft still responds to the controls. At this point, I observed and heard an aircraft flying low (a little above the top of the bluff which at that point is 7 Ift MSL) along the beach that had come from the North around the point. My first reaction was to dive the drone and I started to descend but I realized that it was already above the level of the approaching aircraft so I reversed throttle and continued the climb to evade. The aircraft passed below the drone which was at about 244ft MSL altitude and between the drone and I. The aircraft was a low-wing, single- engine, monoplane, dark in color. The pilot gave no indication that he saw the UAS and continued flying South along the beach. Although the sectional charts list the Minimum Safe Altitude in the area at over 1,000 ft, aircraft sometimes fly along the beach because it is very scenic with the ocean view stretching out to the horizon. This also creates the illusion that other aircraft can be seen well in time to be avoided. But the coast is not a straight line and aircraft skimming the bluffs over the beach are masked by bluffs at points along the coast. In this case the bluff [at the] point only .9 mile away masked the aircraft from my view and vice versa and it was in my flight space with almost no time to react. Pilots should expect to encounter [UAS]. FAA should remind pilots that even if visibility is unlimited, small drones can only be seen at best a mile away and they should avoid tracing the beach contour even if visual flight rules allow it. Synopsis UAS Operator reported a NMAC with an unidentified small aircraft in VMC at low altitude over coastal bluffs.
Time / Day Date : 201710 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : SMO.Airport State Reference : CA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 1900 Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : SMO Make Model Name : Challenger 300 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use.VOR / VORTAC : SMO Flight Phase : Final Approach Airspace.CIass B : LAX Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Operating Under FAR Part.Other Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass B : LAX Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.Flight Crew : Captain Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1492509 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly Conflict : NMAC Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight : Published Material / Policy : FAR Result.General : None Reported / Taken
Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Established on VOR-A into SMO, between BEVEY and WURUD intersections, 1900 to 2000, PM saw two drones whiz by the windshield 15-20 ft on both sides, and called them out. The event was over so quickly that I did not have enough time to look up from instruments and actually see the drones. Somebody was playing with their drones too close to an airport and too high. It is a little scary to think that these drones could have been there intentionally, and perhaps even with a small pack of explosives strapped to them. There was no time to react. We were just lucky that we missed them. Recommend stricter drone policies. Synopsis CL300 Captain on approach to SMO reported a NMAC with two UAVs.
Time / Day Date : 201710 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Altitude.AGL.SingIe Value : 2 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : 10 Light : Daylight Ceiling : CLR Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Corporate Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Operating Under FAR Part.Other Flight Plan : None Mission : Training Flight Phase : Climb Route In Use : None Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person : Hangar / Base Reporter Organization : Corporate Qualification. Other Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 100 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 15 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 100 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1491696 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Object Detector. Person : Other Person Were Passengers Involved In Event . •N When Detected : In-flight Result.Aircraft : Aircraft Damaged Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 Flew DJI Inspire drone into tree. I misjudged proximity to obstacle. Damaged onboard camera and rotor blade.
Synopsis Phantom Pro 4 UAV Operator reported a collision with a tree during climb.
Time / Day Date : 201710 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : LGA.Airport State Reference : NY Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : N90 Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Medium Large Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Approach Airspace.CIass B : NYC Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Operating Under FAR Part.Other Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass B : NYC Aircraft : 3 Reference : Z Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Operating Under FAR Part.Other Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.Class B : NYC Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1490870 Human Factors : Distraction
Events Anomaly Conflict : Airborne Conflict Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Ambiguous Narrative: 1 We were hearing drone reports by ATC. We were eventually given a traffic advisory for the drones ourselves. We kept a look out and the First Officer spotted 2 drones flying about a half mile laterally to the right of us, and 500-1000 feet below us when we were 2 miles prior to GREKO on the approach for Runway 22 in La Guardia. He kept them in sight and we were clear of them, continuing without having to take evasive action. The sun was setting and he wasn't sure if the light was reflecting off of red paint, or if the drones were emitting a red light on each of them. We reported the drones to ATC and made a phone call to them after we parked at the gate. Synopsis Air carrier Captain reported sighting 2 UAVs while conducting an approach at LGA. The event was reported to ATC, however no evasive action was taken.
Time / Day Date : 201710 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : CMA.Airport State Reference : CA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 4000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : NTD Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : SR22 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.CIass E : NTD Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y 10 Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Operating Under FAR Part.Other Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass E : NTD Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 800 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 61 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 100 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1489988 Human Factors : Situational Awareness
Events Anomaly Conflict : NMAC Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.HorizontaI : 300 Miss Distance.VerticaI : O When Detected : In-flight Object Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 I was flying on a VFR flight plan to CMA. I was in VFR conditions with unlimited ceiling and visibility. I was at 4000 feet approaching JUREX intersection. I was given a hand-off with SOCAL to Point Mugu approach. I changed frequency at which time I saw a Florescent Orange flash go by the aircraft off my right wing at my altitude. I saw the flash of color probably less than one second and was not able to focus on the object. It was not an aircraft and was small in size. The flash I saw was a narrow horizontal shape. There was no traffic advisory by ATC This near miss occurred just prior to my right turn onto the final approach to Runway 26 at CMA. I thought about advising Approach of the near miss with a drone but didn't due to my work load at the time of the approach and the threat had passed. Frankly at the time I couldn't think of the word drone. I am now not a fan of drones which could be catastrophic to aircraft. Synopsis SR22 pilot reported a NMAC with a drone while on a visual approach to CMA at 4000 ft.
Time / Day Date : 201710 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ORD.Airport State Reference : IL Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 4000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : C90 Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Regional Jet 200 ER/LR (CRJ200) Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use.STAR : FYITE4 Airspace.CIass B : ORD Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Operating Under FAR Part.Other Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass B : ORD Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1489642 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly Conflict : Airborne Conflict Detector. Person : Flight Crew
When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 While flying the FYITE4 RNAV STAR to ORD, we were on downwind leg for Rwy 27R, level at 4000 MSL and between the VULCN and HIMGO waypoints. I and the First Officer (FO) visually acquired a mostly stationary airborne object ahead of the aircraft and to the right side of our flight path. We quickly closed with the object and then the object passed off the right side of the aircraft at very close range. Although I had initially identified the object as looking like some drifting party-type balloons, as we passed the object the FO stated "I think it's a drone". While I never got a good enough look to be certain that the object was a small unmanned device, the FO was in a much better position to visually track the object so I trust his judgment on the matter. In addition, I noted that the object seemed to be very nearly motionless, which would be unusual for balloons, which are generally ascending at low altitudes such as this one. After passing the object, the FO reported the presence of a possible drone just south of our course at present position. The entire event happened so quickly that as the Flying Pilot I didn't take any evasive action, since it appeared that we would miss the object narrowly Off our right-hand side. The cause of the event would appear to be someone's reckless decision to intentionally or mistakenly operate a small unmanned device in close proximity to air traffic executing arrival procedures to ORD. Education of small UAV operators is paramount to ensure that folks know that a small unmanned device can pose a significant safety hazard for even such a significantly larger aircraft such as a jet airliner. In addition, I'm certain that the technology exists to detect even small unmanned devices and alert the pilots of larger aircraft to their presence. That technology would be hugely helpful in preventing drone strikes and near misses. Synopsis CRJ200 Captain reported a close encounter with a UAV at 4000 feet on the downwind leg for Runway 27R at ORD.
Time / Day Date : 201710 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : LGA.Airport State Reference : NY Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 4000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : N90 Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Medium Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Approach Airspace.CIass B : NYC Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Operating Under FAR Part.Other Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass B : NYC Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1489568 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier
Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1489837 Events Anomaly.Airspace Violation : All Types Anomaly.Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.Horizontal : 30 When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 During a flight to LGA while we were on the left downwind to Runway 22 approximately abeam LGA at 4000 ft, the FO spotted what appeared to be a fixed wing drone pass within 30 ft of the aircraft by his estimate. The crew immediately reported the drone to ATC. ATC sent the crew a number to call after the flight for additional details. The Captain did not ever see the drone, but the FO said he only just saw it as it flashed past the aircraft. Narrative: 2 Descending into LGA we encountered a suspected drone. We were at 4000 MSL, just east of the field preparing for an approach to Runway 22 when the encounter occurred. I made visual contact with what I thought was a large, black bird. As the object neared and passed off our right, it became clear that the object was man-made. I informed the Captain, and then ATC. I provided details included the approximate size of the object, its approximate distance from our aircraft, and our position. We did not make physical contact with the object, and the flight continued without incident. Synopsis Air carrier flight crew reported a close encounter with a "fixed wing drone" at 4000 ft while on left downwind to Runway 22 at LGA.
Time / Day Date : 201710 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZJX.ARTCC State Reference : FL Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 12000 Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZJX Aircraft Operator : Corporate Make Model Name : Citation V/Ultra/Encore (C560) Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Direct Airspace.CIass E : ZJX Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Operating Under FAR Part.Other Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass E : ZJX Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Corporate Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.FIight Crew : Captain Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1489475 Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Confusion Events
Anomaly Conflict : NMAC Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.Horizontal : 100 Miss Distance.VerticaI : O When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Primary Problem : Environment - Non Weather Related Narrative: 1 At 12,000 ft cruise I along with my copilot observed a drone at same level fly by pilot side window 100 ft from aircraft. Jacksonville center was advised of situation. Synopsis CE560 Captain reported a near miss with a UAV.
Time / Day Date : 201709 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Altitude.AGL.SingIe Value : 50 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Operating Under FAR Part.Other Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : None Airspace.CIass G : ZZZ Person Reference : I Location Of Person : Hangar / Base Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Experience.FIight Crew. Total : 1000 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 50 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 1000 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1488815 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Training / Qualification Events Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : Routine Inspection Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I was operating a hobby racing drone in proximity to a moving freight train. I am a very experienced manual drone operator, and I decided to fly closely to, land on, fly under, and fly inside of, a passing cargo train. I wasn't aware, ahead Of the flight, that there were
strict rules about what you can and cannot do near railroad property. The flight lasted about 3 minutes, and I landed safely, putting nothing but the drone in jeopardy. It will not be happening again. Synopsis UAV operator reported unauthorized operation of a drone in close proximity to a moving freight train.
Time / Day Date : 201710 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 250 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Night Ceiling.SingIe Value : 3000 Aircraft Reference : X 10 Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Operating Under FAR Part.Other Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.Class G : ZZZ Person Reference : I Reporter Organization : Personal Function. Other Qualification. Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Private Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 660 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 30 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 300 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1487433 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Security Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Detector. Person : Observer When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1
I observed an unmanned UAS hovering stationary in the immediate vicinity of the [concert event] stage at approximately 250 AGL in close proximity to a large pyrotechnic display associated with the concert performance. In my opinion, this operation was unsafe and should have been prohibited in light of recent events by the establishment Of a TFR for security purposes. Synopsis A ground observer reported noticing a UAV was operating near the stage at a concert event.
Time / Day Date : 201710 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : DAY Airport State Reference : OH Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : DAY Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : None Airspace.Class C : DAY Person Reference : I Location Of Person.FaciIity : DAY. Tower Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Local Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1486594 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Communication Breakdown. Partyl : ATC Communication Breakdown. Party2 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Airborne Conflict 1 (yrs) Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : Pre-flight Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Manuals Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy
Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Primary Problem : Company Policy Narrative: 1 I was working Local Control, the Controller in Charge (CIC) took a phone call on recorded line. The person on the line asked if he was [our Air Traffic Manager (ATM)]. The CIC stated "no". The caller then stated that the ATM had told him to call this number prior to departing his drone. There was zero prior coordination with the controllers. The caller stated he would remain north of a particular road and be below 300 feet. The CIC asked them to notify us after they were complete with their operations. We found a binder in the tower, in the back of the cab, that has the drone procedures. We found the drone pilots Authorization Request that was denied. He was then issued a waiver that stated he was to remain below 75 feet. Based on our grid and how close to our airport this was going to take place, he should not have been granted approval in the first place. There was also an email between the pilot and the ATM where the pilot stated he would be climbing to at least 100 feet and up to 300 feet on one. This is completely against the waiver the pilot received. The ATM would've known about this. The flight path of the drone put them in direct conflict with departures and was especially a conflict for two aircraft I had doing pattern traffic. This was very unsafe. It would have been nice to know about a drone that's in direct conflict with aircraft in my airspace. There should have been notification that this was going to take place. There should also have been someone instructing the drone pilot to adhere to his 75 foot restriction. Synopsis DAY Controller reported a drone pilot operated a drone in violation of their Authorization Request.
Time / Day Date : 201709 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : BUR.Airport State Reference : CA Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 600 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility : Haze / Smoke Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : 6 Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Corporate Make Model Name : Helicopter Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Photo Shoot Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Direct Airspace.CIass E : SCT Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Corporate Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.FIight Crew : Rotorcraft Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument ASRS Report Number.Accession Number . Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly Conflict : Airborne Conflict Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 While filming scenic shots of Los Angeles over and around the Griffith Park Observatory, I observed a drone maneuvering in flight well above the observatory and had to maneuver below and close to the observatory to avoid the drone. I went into a hover at 600 AGL south of the Observatory and while climbing, had to abort the climb once again due to drone interference. I have had a number of drone encounters in the past six months and I believe it is only a matter of time until a midair occurs. Helicopters typically fly at 500 AGL and it seems that private drone operators are not respecting that airspace or the drone FARs. Synopsis Helicopter pilot reported sighting a drone over the Griffith Park Observatory while operating at 600 AGL. The pilot altered his climb to avoid the drone.
Time / Day Date : 201709 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : EAR Airport State Reference : NE Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 60 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Dusk Ceiling.SingIe Value : 8500 Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Personal 10 Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Operating Under FAR Part.Other Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Photo Shoot Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass E : EAR Person Reference : I Location Of Person : Hangar / Base Reporter Organization : Contracted Service Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 15 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1485237 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Confusion Events Anomaly Airspace Violation : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Detector.Automation : Aircraft Other Automation When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.Flight Crew : Exited Penetrated Airspace Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Primary Problem : Airspace Structure Narrative: 1
I went to shoot some footage using my DJI Mavic Pro (Drone) after being contracted by a company. I checked flight maps before flying to make sure that I would not enter Class E Airspace during the shoot as the Class E airspace for Kearney Regional Airport (EAR) extended down to the surface near where I was flying. During takeoff and the first 15 minutes of my flight, everything was running as it should. Aircraft had no issues, and I was NOT in Class E Airspace; however, as I went to capture the east side of the building, my DJI GO 4 app began warning me that I had entered Class E airspace of the Kearney Regional Airport. After discovering this, I ended my recording and proceeded to land in a safe location outside of Class E airspace. I did not exceed 60 feet AGL during my flight at any time. I believe this problem resulted because of how close the event was to Class E airspace and also due to the fact that I could not zoom in close enough with my map resource (www.skyvector.com). Based on what I read on my map, I believed that I was not going to enter Class E airspace during my flight. No aircraft were harmed. My maximum altitude was 60 feet AGL. There was no risk of any aircraft colliding. No aircraft had to take action to avoid a collision. Synopsis A contracted drone operator reported he was alerted by the drone's sensors that he may have penetrated Class E airspace. He immediately terminated his video photography and exited the area.
Time / Day Date : 201710 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : PHL.Airport State Reference : PA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 4500 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : PHL Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Regional Jet 200 ER/LR (CRJ200) Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Climb Airspace.CIass B : PHL Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Operating Under FAR Part.Other Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass B : PHL Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Function.FIight Crew : Captain Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1485168 Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Distraction Events Anomaly Conflict : Airborne Conflict Detector. Person : Flight Crew
When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 During climb out from Philadelphia International the aircraft was climbing to maintain the initial altitude when I detected an object in my left peripheral vision. We were located just east of the downtown area of Philadelphia climbing through 4,500 feet. I turned my head and saw what appeared to be a four bladed unmanned aerial vehicle just west of our path and several hundred feet below the aircraft by the time we passed abeam the object. No evasive action was required nor taken. The controller was busy communicating to another aircraft and soon as the frequency cleared I reported seeing a "drone" just to the west of us near the downtown area. We were given a new frequency to check in with New York Center. Upon checking in with New York I was told to contact Philadelphia Approach with a phone number After completing my flight I contacted to the number. I was asked what type of vehicle it was. What color I thought it was, Brown or gold color. What weight did I think it was; I thought it was large but could not say if it was 50 pounds or more and estimated it might have been 500 feet below us. All these variables were difficult to estimate since we were climbing but I did appeared to large and did not appear to move. Synopsis CRJ-200 Captain reported observing a UAV during climbout from PHL.
Time / Day Date : 201709 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : PHL.Airport State Reference : PA Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 500 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Dusk Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : PHL Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : EMB ERJ 145 ER/LR Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Climb Airspace.CIass B : PHL Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Operating Under FAR Part.Other Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass B : PHL Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1484868 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Conflict : NMAC Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Detector. Person : Flight Crew
When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 We were cleared for takeoff on runway 27L with a turn to 230. It was dusk/night as we started the roll. Everything was normal through 300 ft. I noticed what I assumed to be a bird up ahead at about 11 0'clock. As we got closer I noticed it wasn't moving; almost like a balloon. I had started my turn to 230 as we passed about 500 ft. I asked my FO if he saw what I was seeing but he was busy cleaning up the aircraft. As we got through 700 ft I noticed the green and red lights on what I now figured was a drone. We ended up passing the drone around 200 ft away and it appeared to be around 600 ft agl. At its closest, I could make out 2 rotors and 2 bright lights; one red and one green. It was painted black. Once we were checked in with departure, the FO [notified] them of the drone. We gave them all the info they requested and they asked us to call them after landing. After landing, I called ATC and answered all of their questions. It appeared like a black bird originally. So we treated as you would a bird. We kept the distance and continued as assigned. It wasn't until we got closer that we noticed the different attributes of the drone. We were always a safe distance away. We continued the flight after notifying ATC. Synopsis EMB-145 Captain reported a NMAC with a UAV shortly after takeoff from PHL.
Time / Day Date : 201709 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : FAR. Tower State Reference : ND Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 1000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : FAR Aircraft Operator : Military Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Training Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.CIass D : FAR Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.Tower : FAR Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Small Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : IFR Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.Class D : FAR Aircraft : 3 Reference : Z ATC / Advisory.Tower : FAR Aircraft Operator : FBO Make Model Name : Small Aircraft, High Wing, I Eng, Fixed Gear Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Training Flight Phase : Initial Approach Airspace.Class D : FAR Person
Reference : I Location Of Person. Facility : FAR. Tower Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Instructor Function.Air Traffic Control : Ground Function.Air Traffic Control : Local Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1484734 Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Distraction Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 I was conducting training during a session on LC/GC. My trainee was working Aircraft X in the local traffic pattern on runway 36. He also had Aircraft Z in the traffic pattern on runway 36 and Aircraft Y was inbound on a visual approach to runway 9. Aircraft X was in the right downwind and told to extend downwind, the purpose of this was for Aircraft X to do his option after Aircraft Y had landed and exited the runway. The military flies the UAVs and is restricted to only flying in the Class Delta. The trainee had timed it appropriately so he would turn Aircraft X's base prior to the edge of the Delta and the conflict would be resolved. The pilot of Aircraft X said they needed to turn their base early (about 2 miles from the airport). The trainee reluctantly told Aircraft X to turn their base. The supervisor in the tower cab immediately spoke up that the UAVs shouldn't be extended in that area as they "could lose their engine over populated areas" and would rather do 360's in the downwind or enter high key over the airport. Aircraft X was short final runway 36 and was a conflict with Aircraft Y landing runway 9. The trainee initiated a go around to Aircraft X. This created an unsafe situation as we didn't know these unmanned planes had these special restrictions. This situation wasn't busy or complex, but it created a situation where if Aircraft Y needed to go around for any reason, he would have been in conflict with Aircraft X, who was also going around, they would have met airborne over the intersection of runway 36 and 9. To make it worse, Aircraft Z was in the right downwind across the departure path of runway 9. I have only worked the local unmanned aircraft flown by our military while training and only a few times, but I have noticed the extra care that needs to be taken while working these aircraft. These are VFR aircraft in the traffic pattern, but they are unable to see and avoid. They cannot follow traffic and their traffic patterns need to be completely controlled by the controllers, their bases need to be called to follow traffic and for wake turbulence delays. Not only is this extra work to be constantly watching and timing their patterns, we
also need to be mindful if the aircraft goes lost link, where it will fly the shortest route to its lost link orbit location. This could mean the aircraft will immediately make a turn across the airport, if we don't see it happen soon enough and take action to move everyone else, we could have an unmanned aircraft cutting off and flying into arrivals or departures from any one of our three runways. Now management is telling us also that we also need to keep them away from populated areas and that they worry about their engines quitting. I'm not sure why these aircraft are more susceptible to lose an engine than any other single engine aircraft, but if they are and the operators want to remain clear of populated areas, that needs to be addressed in the LOA that they have with tower. The military unit has been vocal about wanting to fly both of their UAVs in the pattern at the same time. There are times without them when it is busy and we don't have much room in our local traffic pattern. Sometimes aircraft need to extend and sometimes they need to exit the delta. This is something we expect all aircraft in our pattern to be able to accept and we shouldn't have to make exceptions that jeopardize the safety of others, whether it be the flying public or people on the ground. Synopsis FAR Local Controller reported an operation involving a military UAV that was being conducted not in accordance with the LOA.
Time / Day Date : 201709 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : JCF.TRACON State Reference : CA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 51000 Environment Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : JCF Aircraft Operator : Military Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Training Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass A : JCF Airspace.SpeciaI Use : R2508 Person Reference : I Location Of Person.FaciIity : JCF.TRACON Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Approach Function.Air Traffic Control : Enroute Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1484444 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Time Pressure Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Situational Awareness Communication Breakdown. Partyl : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly Airspace Violation : All Types Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight
Result.FIight Crew : Returned To Clearance Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Aircraft X inquired if he had a flight plan in the computer for XA:OO, I had flight data check and there was a flight plan proposed at XA:OO via the BTY244044 (BTY 244 radial at 44 nm) to the DAG356041 (DAG 356 radial at 41 nm) with several more fixes and clearance limit of the BTY 244 radial at 44 nm. At the time Aircraft X was operating on a complex clearance at or above FL500 which requires the aircraft to remain within the R-2508 complex. At XA:OO Aircraft X requested his IFR clearance. I issued Aircraft X a clearance to the BTY244044 via the BTY244044 fix then as filed and to cross the R-2508 boundary in a block altitude FL510-FL590. At this point Aircraft X is east-southeast of the BTY244044 heading north so I expected he would go past the fix and turn around and join the flight plan route. A few minutes later I observe Aircraft X in the far northeast corner of R-2508 about to spill-out of R-2508 as Aircraft X had never crossed the R-2508 boundary outbound on the flight plan route they are still required to comply with their complex clearance as IFR services are not being provided to participating aircraft until they exit on their assigned route. I issued a boundary alert to Aircraft X and to turn south. Whiskey alerts were completed with ZOA 33 and ZLA 16. Aircraft X continued to fly northbound I then instructed them to turn south immediately as they were now 5 nm outside the airspace. The pilot snapped back that he was on an IFR clearance. I informed him that the clearance I had was the BTY244044 direct DAG356041 and within seconds the pilot replied they were turning south to join the proper route. I suspect what happened here is that Aircraft X will file multiple flight plans with different proposed times and so when the asked about the XA:OO clearance there were no other XA:OO proposed time but there was a later clearance with a XD:OO proposed time and I think they started to fly that flight plan versus the one they were actually cleared. Synopsis JCF T RACON Controller reported issues with a drone pilot and the possibility Of flying a clearance that was supposed to be flown later.
Time / Day Date : 201709 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Altitude.AGL.SingIe Value : 190 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Corporate Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Operating Under FAR Part.Other Flight Plan : None Mission : Photo Shoot Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : None Airspace.CIass G : ZZZ Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Small Aircraft, High Wing, I Eng, Fixed Gear Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass G : ZZZ Person Reference : I Location Of Person : Hangar / Base Reporter Organization : Corporate Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 500 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 3 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 10 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Distraction Events 1483563
Anomaly Conflict : Airborne Conflict Detector. Person : Other Person When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Ambiguous Narrative: 1 Flying a UAS on a photo mission near a major road early in the morning. UAS was being flown at an altitude of less than 200 feet and below the level of a nearby cell tower. Aircraft approached from out of the sun and came over the top of the UAS before pilot could take any evasive action. Pilot of the aircraft spotted the UAS and then began to circle around the UAS as if to spot what the UAS was taking pictures of. Eventually left the area. This is at least the second time a transient aircraft has come over to see what a UAS is doing and has hindered operations. In this particular case, the airplane appeared to be lower and closer to the UAS. Landing of the UAS was considered but not done because the airplane left as quickly as he showed up. In previous encounters, I have landed the UAS and waited for the aircraft to depart. Synopsis A commercial UAV operator reported that a fixed wing aircraft descended and circled near their drone, interrupting a photo shoot.
Time / Day Date : 201709 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 100 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Helicopter Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Mission : Ambulance Flight Phase : Climb Airspace.CIass G : ZZZ Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Operating Under FAR Part.Other Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass G : ZZZ Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Rotorcraft ASRS Report Number Accession Number : Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Conflict : NMAC Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.HorizontaI : O Miss Distance.Vertical : 25 1482595
When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Near midair [with] a small drone flying one block east of the hospital. Our aircraft was on initial climb out at approximately 65 knots and was climbing from helipad to 2200 MSL. Elevation [at] time of near miss was probably 100-150 feet above helipad which is approximately 1250 MSL. The primary departure path from this helipad is standardized due to close noise sensitive areas and must be protected from drone activities and intrusions due to high flight volume around the hospital. We had to look up through the rotors to keep it in sight as it passed directly over the aircraft by about 25-50 feet. We saw it at the last second and had no time to react. Ground all private drones. They are going to cause a mishap with a manned aircraft, the regulations for their operation do not provide helicopters with a margin of safety that is acceptable to flight crews who cannot see them because they are too small. The drones also do not have lights or markings that aid in their visual acquisition. They also do not register on TCAS or other radar systems. Alternately, "no drone" fly zones within 1 NM of all hospital helipads. Synopsis Helicopter pilot reported a NMAC with a UAV shortly after takeoff from a hospital.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : PDX.Airport State Reference : OR Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 1200 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : PDX Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8737 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Final Approach Airspace.CIass C : PDX Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Operating Under FAR Part.Other Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass C : PDX Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Function.FIight Crew : Captain Qualification. Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 5596 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1482511 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck
Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 2023 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1482282 Events Anomaly Conflict : NMAC Detector. Person : Passenger Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.Horizontal : 100 Miss Distance.VerticaI : O When Detected : In-flight Result.General : Police / Security Involved Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 We were on final to RWY 28R at PDX descending through 1,200 MSL when we saw a blue quad-copter drone pass off the left side of the aircraft. We saw the drone just as it passed and did not have to maneuver to avoid. I would estimate that it was within a wingspan distance, so roughly 100 from us at the same altitude. As passengers were deplaning, multiple passengers commented that they had seen the drone and wondered if we had seen it also. One passenger familiar with the area said that it was near the IKEA just east of PDX. I called PDX Tower and discussed the incident with them. Later in the day I received a call from the Portland police department asking questions about the incident as well. Narrative: 2 I was the flying pilot (FO) on flight to PDX. On final approach inside the marker I saw something blue on the left side (south) of the aircraft. We were about 3 miles from the runway and 900 ft. My first guess at the time was that the blue object was some balloons and I even brought that up during the approach. After landing and at the gate while the passengers were deplaning two passengers approached the cockpit absolutely convinced that a blue drone came really close to our aircraft during the approach. They themselves were familiar with drones and even stated the type (I believe they said it was a quadcopter). Because we saw something blue and they were convinced it was a drone and also stated the color blue my CA thought it wise to report the incident to Portland tower. I agreed. He talked to the tower on the phone and also was contacted by the police and gave location information of the incident. Synopsis 3737 flight crew reported a NMAC with a UAV on approach to PDX.
Time / Day Date : 201709 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : LAX.Airport State Reference : CA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 1300 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : LAX Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : A320 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use. Localizer/GIidesIope/ILS : Runway XX Flight Phase : Final Approach Airspace.Class B : LAX Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Operating Under FAR Part.Other Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass B : LAX Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1482331 Events Anomaly.Conflict : NMAC Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.HorizontaI : O Miss Distance.Vertical : 50
When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Airspace Structure Narrative: 1 At about 1300 MSL on the ILS I spotted what I thought was a big black bird and told the FO to avoid it. When we passed under it by 50 ft we saw it was a black with white striped drone. We told the tower and continued uneventfully to land. Synopsis A320 Captain reported a NMAC with a UAV on approach to LAX.
Time / Day Date : 201709 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : MKC.Airport State Reference : MO Relative Position. Distance. Nautical Miles : Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 1900 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : MI<C Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi 5 Make Model Name : Medium Large Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Approach Airspace.Class D : MKC Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Operating Under FAR Part.Other Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass D : MKC Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1481428 Events Anomaly.Conflict : NMAC Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Object Detector. Person : Flight Crew
Miss Distance.HorizontaI : 500 Miss Distance.VerticaI : 100 Were Passengers Involved In Event : N When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 At 4.9 DME from MKC and at 1900 MSL, the Pilot Flying noticed a large quadcopter at our 10 0'clock position from the flight deck. Approximate separation was 500 ft laterally and 100 ft below the aircraft. Due to parallax while on the approach it was not possible to determine if the UAS was maneuvering but it was determined that the incident UAS was not a threat and no aircraft approach adjustment was necessary. The incident location and altitude was relayed to Tower. Synopsis Corporate jet Capatin reported a close encounter with a quadcopter UAS on approach to MKC.
Time / Day Date : 201709 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : LGA.Airport State Reference : NY Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 3500 Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : N90 Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Regional Jet 700 ER/LR (CRJ700) Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Approach Airspace.CIass B : NYC Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Operating Under FAR Part.Other Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass B : NYC Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1480323 Events Anomaly Conflict : NMAC Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 Airspace Structure Procedure Approximately 20 mm south of LGA at 3500 ft we encountered what appeared to be a drone. We noticed it at our 1 0'clock and slightly low and it passed immediately off our right wing. We were unsure of its identity at first, but the FO reported that just before we were abeam it, it made an immediate turn to the east away from us. We reported to ATC without delay and they handed us off to the next frequency. Synopsis CRJ700 Captain reported a NMAC with a UAV 20 NM south of LGA at 3500 ft.
Time / Day Date : 201709 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : PHX.Airport State Reference : AZ Relative Position.Angle.Radial : 019 Relative Position. Distance. Nautical Miles : 6 Altitude.AGL.SingIe Value : 100 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Corporate Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Operating Under FAR Part.Other Flight Plan : None Mission : Photo Shoot Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : None Airspace.Class E : P50 Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person : Hangar / Base Reporter Organization : Corporate Function.FIight Crew : Other / Unknown ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : Human Factors : Situational Awareness Analyst Callback : Completed Events 1480099 Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Loss Of Aircraft Control Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.General : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Ambiguous Narrative: 1
Started using a preprogrammed flight path. Three minutes into a fifteen minute flight, radio connection was lost with aircraft. Attempted to use "return to home" function and manual control but aircraft would not respond. Aircraft flew beyond line of sight and has yet to be recovered. Callback: 1 Contacted reporter who confirmed that the UAV had still not been recovered and added that the UAV was lost in a partially mountainous or hilly area with some large private residences scattered about. The local police were notified of the loss. Synopsis UAV Operator reported losing radio connection with their UAV on a commercial photography mission. It has not been recovered.
Time / Day Date : 201709 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : LAX.Airport State Reference : CA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 9000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : SCT Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : EMB ERJ 170/175 ER/LR Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Nav In Use : GPS Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use.STAR : HLYWD 1 Airspace.CIass B : LAX Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Operating Under FAR Part.Other Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass B : LAX Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.FIight Crew : Captain Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 3600 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 1000 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1479955 Events
Anomaly Conflict : NMAC Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.Horizontal : O Miss Distance.VerticaI : 300 When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 My FO called my attention during our final descent into LAX on the HLYWD I arrival, cleared for the approach to 25L, and passing FUELR at 9,000 ft. I looked straight out 12 0' clock a little high and I saw a black object flying by us a few hundred feet above us. I asked him, do you think it was a bird? He said that he thought it was a drone. It was too late to do anything and no strike was suspected. We reported this to the AT C, who reported to other planes. The landing was concluded uneventfully. Synopsis EMB-175 Captain reported a NMAC with a UAV on approach to LAX at 9000 ft in the vicinity of FUELR.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : APG.Airport State Reference : MD Relative Position.Angle.Radial : 030 Relative Position. Distance. Nautical Miles : 10 Altitude.AGL.SingIe Value : 200 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility. Visibility Light : Daylight Ceiling.Single Value : 4500 Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Corporate Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Operating Under FAR Part.Other Flight Plan : None Mission : Photo Shoot Flight Phase.Other Route In Use : None Airspace.CIass E : APG Person Reference : I Location Of Person : Hangar / Base Reporter Organization : Contracted Service Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 554 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 4 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 4 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly Airspace Violation : All Types 1477824 Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : Routine Inspection Result.Flight Crew : Became Reoriented
Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I operated a Mavic Pro UAV as RPIC (Remote PIC) accidentally within the border of the Class E airspace to the surface approach path into Philips AAF (APG). The problem arose due to airspace inspection that was not detailed enough. Due to my distance from controlled airports, I believed I was in Class G airspace, however, further detailed inspection of the airspace after landing the UAV showed that I was actually operating within the edge of the Class E airspace approach path. It was my understanding that two other people had confirmed that the area I operated the UAV in was Class G airspace; however they had either not done an airspace inspection or had done an incomplete airspace inspection resulting in the wrong airspace identified. As RPIC, it was my error in not double checking their airspace identification before operating the UAV. No conflicts with other aircraft occurred with this violation. Synopsis UAV operator reported operating within the borders of Class E airspace.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : LGA.Airport State Reference : NY Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 1000 Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : LGA Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Regional Jet 700 ER/LR (CRJ700) Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Climb Airspace.CIass B : NYC Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Operating Under FAR Part.Other Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass B : NYC Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1476521 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : First Officer
Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification. Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (AT P) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1476811 Events Anomaly Conflict : NMAC Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Shortly after rotation from runway 4 in LGA ATC advised us of a drone sighting at 1200 ft. As we climbed through 1000 ft I keyed the mike to acknowledge ATCs advisory and a drone passed just above my windscreen. I told the Tower we saw the drone and that we may have hit it. Apparently this was construed as we did hit it. I definitely could have phrased that better. We did not see an impact and all systems were operating normally. I advised Departure we would continue on to [destination]. The FAA met us at the gate [at destination] and I made a write up in the Maintenance log to get local Maintenance to do a strike inspection. No evidence of a strike was found. Previous aircraft reported the drone and we were not made aware of this until after we were airborne. I was conducting IOE with a new hire and my focus was more on the flight instruments than outside the aircraft. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis CRJ-700 flight crew reported a NMAC with a UAV climbing out of LGA.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 200 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 12000 Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Personal 10 Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Operating Under FAR Part.Other Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass E : ZZZ Person Reference : I Location Of Person : Gate / Ramp / Line Reporter Organization : Personal Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Engineer Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 8800 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days . 1 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : .5 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Training / Qualification Events 1476358 Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : Pre-flight Result.FIight Crew : Became Reoriented
Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : ATC Equipment / Nav Facility / Buildings Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : ATC Equipment / Nav Facility / Buildings Narrative: 1 I registered a "toy" drone/UAS that you'd buy at Walmart for 30$ in 2015. I paid a fee and registered before I flew it. Then I bought a Phantom 4 Pro (1600$) and tried to register it (recreational), but it wouldn't let me add another make and model, so I figured that would satisfy 107.13. Since then I have registered it as a commercial I-JAS. I didn't realize that under part 107 that ATC authorization was required to fly UAS recreational in Class E to the surface. In manned aircraft (which I have significant experience) this is not required, so I'm still a little confused. Synopsis UAS pilot previously registered a toy UAS as per FAR 107, but the FAA website did not allow him to register a newly purchased Phantom 4 Pro. The UAS was flown then subsequently registered as a commercial UAS.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : LGA.Airport State Reference : NY Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 2500 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : N90 Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Regional Jet 200 ER/LR (CRJ200) Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Approach Airspace.CIass B : NYC Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Operating Under FAR Part.Other Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass B : NYC Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1475371 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Conflict : NMAC Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.HorizontaI : 300 Miss Distance.Vertical : 200
When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Approaching Twin Tanks on LGA Runway 31 visual. ATC advised us that aircraft in front of us saw a drone. As we flew across Twin Tanks I saw a spot coming towards us, but it was a mylar balloon. First Officer said she saw a drone to our right just above our altitude, size about 5 ft across. I did not see it. At DIALS at 2500 feet drone was about 2700 ft [and] a few hundred ft to the right of us. Synopsis CRJ-200 Captain reported a NMAC with a UAV on approach to LGA in the vicinity of DIALS.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : SYR.Tower State Reference : NY Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : SYR Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Small Aircraft, Low Wing, 1 Eng, Fixed Gear Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Landing Route In Use : None Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.Tower : SYR Aircraft Operator : Military Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Training Flight Phase : Taxi Route In Use : None Person Reference : I Location Of Person.FaciIity : SYR.Tower Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Local Function.Air Traffic Control : Ground Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Developmental ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1474497 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Confusion Communication Breakdown.PartyI : ATC
Communication Breakdown.Party2 Analyst Callback : Completed Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Ground Conflict, : Flight Crew Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Runway Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : Taxi Result.General : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 I was working the positions of Local and Ground combined. In the tower was another controller working Flight Data Clearance Delivery and he was the Tower CIC as well. There was a significant amount of flow programs being utilized which caused extra workload for the Flight Data position and for myself on the Ground control frequency. On tower frequency was 5 aircraft in the pattern with one of the aircraft being a drone remote piloted aircraft. This is not a normal operation at Syracuse Tower. The average amount of traffic in the pattern is I aircraft. Not only was there 5 aircraft in the pattern, but there were multiple air carrier arrivals into Syracuse as well as another drone. In my opinion, for traffic that was on both the Ground and Local frequencies there needed to be an extra controller in the tower. Unfortunately, due to our staffing this was not an option. The actual event that took place involved Aircraft X who was in the VFR traffic Pattern. Aircraft X was instructed to follow the drone with its chase Aircraft. Aircraft X reported both aircraft in sight and was cleared for the option. Aircraft Y was observed landing while Aircraft X was on a 2 mile final. As Aircraft X touched down the drone was turning off of the runway. The drone drones have to taxi at a specific speed when they are on the taxiways and the runways. Their taxiing speed is significantly slower than any fixed wing aircraft. In my opinion, this was the leading contributor to the runway incursion. I recommend that if there are more than 2 aircraft in the pattern and a drone, there needs to be a standalone CIC or decombine Local and Ground frequencies. An increase in staffing would have allowed for an extra "pair of eyes" for the operation. A standard strip marking procedure for pattern traffic would be helpful to provide a visual aid for increased controller workload. The drone should be taxiing at a much faster pace on the runways and they can slow their taxi speed on the taxiways. A procedure should be in place to address the runway compression that occurs whenever a drone lands i.e. approach separates an arrival further from the drone to make up for the times it takes to get the drone off of the runway Callback: 1 Reporter said the Military is taxiing Military UAV's at airport for training then during the time of this report they were flying them in the tower pattern. Reporter advised that the
military should be doing this somewhere else and not at SYR. Reporter stated the FAA is trying to figure out how to integrate the UAVs in a normal traffic pattern. Synopsis SYR Tower Controller reported a runway incursion due to the MQ-9 UAV taxiing too slow and an arrival landing on the runway while the drone was still exiting.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : MYF.Airport State Reference : CA Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Operating Under FAR Part.Other Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.Class G : MYF Person Reference : I Location Of Person : Gate / Ramp / Line Reporter Organization : Personal Qualification Flight Crew : Private ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1474478 Events Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected. Other Result.GeneraI : Police / Security Involved Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 There was a drone flying over parked aircraft at MYF airport. East of and directly over the FBO building. We witnessed 2 flights of the drone as we were securing our aircraft after completing our flight. The drone was reported to the police during its first flight, and then again when it came back during its second flight. Unknown if they located anyone connected to it. Drone appeared to be about 150 feet above the ground at its highest, there was no
NOTAM regarding drone flight occurring at the airport. The drone made multiple passes in an east to west and back during its flights over parked aircraft. I was able to hear the motors of the drone during both of its flight. The drone flew over parked aircraft for about 5 minutes during each flight, while aircraft were actively landing at the airport and making radio position reports. The drone had red and green lights allowing easy visibility against a black sky to see it turn and track it as it made its multiple passes over parked aircraft and then exited to the south appearing to land at an office building. Synopsis Pilot tying down his aircraft reported sighting a drone flying over parked aircraft at MYF at night. No NOTAMs were in effect for these flights.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : JFK.Airport State Reference : NY Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 4000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : N90 Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Regional Jet 200 ER/LR (CRJ200) Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.Class B : NYC Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Operating Under FAR Part.Other Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass B : NYC Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1473457 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly Conflict : NMAC Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.Vertical : 150
When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 We were being vectored for a visual 22L into JFK. Just after crossing the shore Of Long Island at 4000 ft heading 040, speed 250 KIAS about 2-4 miles southwest of FRG airport, [the First Officer] and I were both heads up because of all the VFR traffic surrounding the airport. It was a beautiful day. That's when something caught my eye passing off the left side of the aircraft. It was only visible for about 3 seconds before it passed about 100-200 ft below us, but it was quite clearly a drone. It was white and shaped like a box. Looked like one of those phantom quadcopters or larger. The First Officer did not see it. I reported it to the Approach Controller and then called to give a more detailed report after we parked at the gate. Synopsis CRJ-200 Captain reported a NMAC with a UAV on a visual approach to JFK Runway 22L.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : JFK.Airport State Reference : NY Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 3000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : N90 Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Medium Large Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Climb Airspace.CIass B : NYC Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Operating Under FAR Part.Other Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass B : NYC Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1472399 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Conflict : NMAC Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.General : None Reported / Taken
Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 - Non Weather Related On departure from runway 31L at JFK we were informed by the Departure Controller of a drone sighting by the preceding aircraft. The Controller gave us a heading and advised us that the drone had been seen to the preceding aircraft's right at 3000 feet msl. We turned to the assigned heading (autopilot on, but yoke in hand, just in case), and were both scanning outside the aircraft. I spotted the drone just before we went abeam it, on our LEFT side, at 3000 (we were just above it in the climb, perhaps 50 feet higher). Our geographic location at the time was approximately 3/4 of a mile northeast of the former Coast Guard air station. We passed the drone without the need for evasive action. We immediately notified ATC, and I remembered to press the FDR (Flight Data Recorder) Event button to save the location data. I later (when time permitted) ACARSed our dispatcher so as to make sure the FDR data would be preserved. It was a large drone, and appeared to have some kind of parachute/balloon attachment. Had we made contact it would have been very bad. The remainder of the flight was uneventful. I would note that the turn given [to] us by ATC was entirely proper based on available data. The Controller had only one data point from the preceding aircraft to go by, and made a best guess as to the safest course of action. The Controller did give us ample warning to be aware, thus having us in the correct position to take evasive action had it been necessary. I was somewhat surprised that departures and arrivals continued. I would have suggested stopping them, and sending up a police helicopter to locate the drone and thus have a specific location before sending larger and fast passenger aircraft into the area. Synopsis Air carrier Captain reported a close encounter with a UAV on climbout from JFK Runway 31L after being informed by Departure Control that the preceding aircraft had reported sighting a drone.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : FSD.Airport State Reference : SD Relative Position.Angle.Radial : 360 Relative Position. Distance. Nautical Miles : 20 Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 27000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZMP Aircraft Operator : Government Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Tactical Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Direct Airspace.CIass A : ZMP Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person : Hangar / Base Reporter Organization : Government Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 3000 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 22 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 1500 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1471822 Human Factors : Human-Machine Interface Human Factors : Situational Awareness Analyst Callback : Completed Events Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Excursion From Assigned Altitude Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Detector. Person : Flight Crew Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control
When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Returned To Clearance Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 I put the aircraft on a pre-programmed mission with altitude set to FL270 and airspeed set to 83 KIAS. The altitude was not properly propagated to one of the points on the mission and I missed that. Turning to point 3, the aircraft started descending from FL 270 and went as low as FL254. Center called as I was doing a manual take over and climbed back to the assigned altitude fixed the mission and continued over the area of interest until a crew swap out 2 hours later. The location was approximately 20 miles north of Sioux Falls, SD. Callback: 1 Reporter mentioned that there was an error in the program. FL200 was entered when it should have been FL270. Synopsis UAV Operator reported misprograming the UAV causing it to descend unintentionally.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 4000 Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Government Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Training Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use : None Airspace.CIass E : ZZZ Person Reference : I Location Of Person.FaciIity : ZZZ.Tower Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Flight Data / Clearance Delivery Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) : 7 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1471566 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Human-Machine Interface Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Distraction Communication Breakdown.Party1 : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Analyst Callback : Completed Events Anomaly Airspace Violation : All Types Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control
When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 The military recently started flying MQ9 unmanned drones at ZZZ. We were directed by FAA HQ that if the MQ9 exited the Class D surface area we had to file a report. The MQ9 was instructed to go to hold so Local Control could get some departures out. I witnessed the MQ9 exit the class D surface area. I questioned the ATM (Air Traffic Manager) and the FLM (Frontline Manager) about filing a report and was pretty much told not to worry about it. As of right now, the FLM and ATM have not filed a report, which is in direct violation of what FAA HQ has told our facility. I recommend that the military terminate the flying of MQ9's at ZZZ. Every time the military has a COA/LOA with us they violate them, and our management just "sweeps it under the rug." Flying the MQ9's at ZZZ puts an inherent risk on others using the national airspace system and to me as a pilot does not seem safe, especially with the amount of commercial traffic at ZZZ. Callback: 1 Reporter stated that the military signs the COAs and LOAs, but does not follow what is written. Management at the facility does not want any problems with the military, so the military basically does whatever they want. Reporter thinks this is very unsafe and the situation needs to be looked into. Synopsis ZZZ Tower Controller reported a military UAV exited the Delta airspace against current agreements between the FAA and military.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : EWR.Airport State Reference : NJ Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 15000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZNY Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8737 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : GPS Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Climb Airspace.CIass E : ZNY Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Operating Under FAR Part.Other Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass E : ZNY Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.FIight Crew : First Officer Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 989 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1470548 Human Factors : Distraction Events
Anomaly Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Environment - Non Weather Related Narrative: 1 I was the flying pilot departing EWR momentarily level at 15,000 before resuming our ATC climb past Colts Neck (COL) VOR when I saw a bright flash at my 2 0'clock position that caught my attention. I looked over towards the bright and highly reflective object. I tracked the path/trajectory and it appeared to be relatively level traveling opposite direction and below our flight path. It passed below and outside of the right engine nacelle about midway out from the length of the right wing. It was highly reflective and shimmering so I could not get a clear image of it relative size and shape. However, it appeared to be the size of a football with a fairly stable trajectory. I looked back towards the Captain and the jumpseater and said "did you see that?" The jumpseater said that he did and the Captain indicated that he did not. The jumpseater and I said it looked like or could be a drone. Our assumption. The best I could compare it to visually was a flare with its highly reflective appearance but a smooth (not random or wobbly) level flight path whizzing by us at a consistent speed. I could not see any identify features, such as rotors, paint color, or markings. Synopsis B737 First Officer reported a shiny object passed very close to the right engine while level at 15000 ft during an EWR departure.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : LRJ.Airport State Reference : IA Relative Position.Angle.Radial : 138 Relative Position. Distance. Nautical Miles : 9 Altitude.AGL.SingIe Value : 350 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X Make Model Name : Single Engine Turboprop Undifferentiated Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 137 Flight Plan : None Mission : Agriculture Flight Phase : Climb Route In Use : Direct Airspace.Class G : LRJ Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : UAV - Unpiloted Aerial Vehicle Operating Under FAR Part.Other Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass G : LRJ Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Contracted Service Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Experience.Flight Crew. Total : 7900 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days . 150 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 1000 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1470425
Confusion Human Factors : Human Factors : Distraction Events Anomaly.Conflict : NMAC Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.Horizontal : 50 Miss Distance.Vertical : 20 When Detected : In-flight Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Primary Problem : Environment - Non Weather Related Narrative: 1 After completing an aerial application of a farm field approximately 10 miles southeast of LRJ airport, I was climbing out to the northwest to my typical ferrying altitude of 500 feet AGL to return to LRJ. One mile to the northwest of my target location while climbing, at 350 AGL I notice briefly a white object appear in my lower right corner of my windshield. I initially believed it to be a seagull as birds are rarely white this time of year, but when the object reappeared under the right wingtip of my aircraft I noticed it was in fact a white colored quad-copter type UAV. I estimate the UAV missed my right wingtip by approximately 50 ft horizontal and 20 ft below vertically. I had no time to take any evasive actions prior to noticing and passing the I-JAV. After discovering the object was in fact a UAV, I circled the field to observe the UAV was in a stationary hover approximately 350 AGL above a farm field. I then observed what I believed to be the operators of the UAV inside the cab of a pickup truck, located on a siding adjacent to the field facing to the west. I did not see any operators or observers located outside of the pickup. After 2 orbits of the field the UAV, began a descent to the road along the parameter of the field, and the truck drove to intercept it. I then continued my flight direct to LRJ with no further incidents. Synopsis Agriculture aircraft pilot reported a near miss with a UAV approximately 10 miles southeast Of LRJ.
