ASRS Database Report Set Inflight Weather Encounters Report Set Description. ................A sampling of reports from both air carrier flight crews and GA pilots referencing encounters with severe or unforecast weather. Update Number .......32.0 Date of Update ....December 28, 2017 Number of Records in Report Set........................50 Number of New Records in Report Set . .....50 Type of Records in Report Set. .............For each update, new records received at ASRS will displace a like number of the oldest records in the Report Set, with the objective of providing the fifty most recent relevant ASRS Database records. Records within this Report Set have been screened to assure their relevance to the topic.
National Aeronautics and Space Administration Ames Research Center Moffett Field, CA 94035-1000 TH: 262-7 MEMORANDUM FOR: Recipients of Aviation Safety Reporting System Data SUBJECT: Data Derived from ASRS Reports The attached material is furnished pursuant to a request for data from the NASA Aviation Safety Reporting System (ASRS). Recipients of this material are reminded when evaluating these data of the following points. ASRS reports are submitted voluntarily. The existence in the ASRS database of reports concerning a specific topic cannot, therefore, be used to infer the prevalence of that problem within the National Airspace System. Information contained in reports submitted to ASRS may be amplified by further contact with the individual who submitted them, but the information provided by the reporter is not investigated further. Such information represents the perspective of the specific individual who is describing their experience and perception of a safety related event. After preliminary processing, all ASRS reports are de-identified and the identity of the individual who submitted the report is permanently eliminated. All ASRS report processing systems are designed to protect identifying information submitted by reporters; including names, company affiliations, and specific times of incident occurrence. After a report has been de-identified, any verification of information submitted to ASRS would be limited. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration and its ASRS current contractor, Booz Allen Hamilton, specifically disclaim any responsibility for any interpretation which may be made by others of any material or data furnished by NASA in response to queries of the ASRS database and related materials. Linda J. Connell, Director NASA Aviation Safety Reporting System
CAVEAT REGARDING USE OF ASRS DATA Certain caveats apply to the use of ASRS data. All ASRS reports are voluntarily submitted, and thus cannot be considered a measured random sample of the full population of like events. For example, we receive several thousand altitude deviation reports each year. This number may comprise over half of all the altitude deviations that occur, or it may be just a small fraction of total occurrences. Moreover, not all pilots, controllers, mechanics, flight attendants, dispatchers or other participants in the aviation system are equally aware of the ASRS or may be equally willing to report. Thus, the data can reflect reporting biases. These biases, which are not fully known or measurable, may influence ASRS information. A safety problem such as near midair collisions (NMACs) may appear to be more highly concentrated in area "A" than area "B" simply because the airmen who operate in area "A" are more aware of the ASRS program and more inclined to report should an NMAC occur. Any type of subjective, voluntary reporting will have these limitations related to quantitative statistical analysis. One thing that can be Imown from ASRS data is that the number of reports received concerning specific event types represents the lower measure of the true number of such events that are occurring. For example, if ASRS receives 881 reports of track deviations in 2010 (this number is purely hypothetical), then it can be known with some certainty that at least 881 such events have occurred in 2010. With these statistical limitations m mind, we believe that the real power of ASRS data is the qualitative information contained in report narratives. The pilots, controllers, and others who report tell us about aviation safety incidents and situations in detail — explaining what happened, and more importantly, why it happened. Using report narratives effectively requires an extra measure of study, but the knowledge derived is well worth the added effort.
Report Synopses
ACN:1488242 (lof50) Synopsis C525 Captain reported a track deviation during climb from SLC when they were distracted by turbulence or a wake vortex encounter. ACN: 1485675 (20f50) Synopsis Diamond DA40 pilot reported encountering severe turbulence while traversing a mountain pass. He and all the passengers hit their heads on the ceiling when the seat belts became ineffective. ACN: 1481209 (30f50) Synopsis EMB-505 flight crew reported using Captain's authority to circumnavigate an area of thunderstorms. ACN:1477252 (40f50) Synopsis Air carrier flight crew reported descending below the MIA Runway 26R RNAV Approach profile. The autopilot did not capture the vertical path and the crew did not detect it until they were low causing a GPWS warning. ACN: 1476596 (50f50) Synopsis Air Carrier flight crew reported a deviation for weather in oceanic airspace, after deviating a message was received from ATC that denied the deviation. ACN:1476347 (60f50) Synopsis A single engine pilot reported approach control vectored a military aircraft over his aircraft which the pilot felt was unsafe. ACN:1476074 (70f50) Synopsis A PA28 Student Pilot reported that after damaging the aircraft during a go-around, the repair made by a local mechanic did not have the proper documentation. ACN: 1476062 (80f50)
Synopsis A Maintenance Controller reported that he received a report that a Bombardier CRJ-700 had minor cabin damage due to turbulence, later it was found to have severe cabin damage. ACN•. 1475960 (90f50) Synopsis SF 340B Captain reported returning to the departure airport after loss of First Officer's attitude and heading indicators. ACN•. 1475763 (100f50) Synopsis SR22 pilot reported that during cruise the Multifunction Display flickered then he smelled electrical burning/arching. ACN: 1474961 (11 Synopsis A319 Captain reported descending below the profile on descent to IAD when they encountered turbulence that may have been a wake encounter. ACN: 1474872 (120f50) Synopsis Cessna pilot reported being unable to maintain altitude and airspeed due to a downdraft on approach to COS. ACN: 1474295 (130f50) Synopsis 3767-300 reported that due to weather conditions the aircraft had a hard. ACN: 1474226 (140f50) Synopsis 3737 flight crew reported a rejected takeoff due to a predictive windshear warning. ACN: 1474198 (150f50) Synopsis Cessna Skymaster Pilot reported inadvertently climbing VFR into Class A airspace due to convective activity. He negotiated with the Center Controller and a Military Controller for a new IFR clearance away from the convective activity, restricted airspace, and out of the MOA to his destination.
ACN:1473844 (160f50) Synopsis C172 pilot reported entering an area of extreme precipitation and severe turbulence while using NEXRAD XM weather to circumnavigate storm areas. ACN: 1473689 (170f50) Synopsis Flight crew reported windshear warnings while attempting to land at the COS airport that resulted in two missed approaches. A third attempt was attempted in lieu of a diversion, and a successful landing was accomplished. ACN: 1473122 (180f50) Synopsis Learjet crew reported encountering failures of the Windshield Heat, Autopilot, and Electronic Attitude Direction Indicator during flight. Crew continued to VMC conditions and landed uneventfully. ACN: 1472727 (190f50) Synopsis C172 pilot reported a power loss that led to an altitude deviation that was probably related to carburetor icing. ACN: 1472521 Synopsis Miami Center Controller reported an aircraft that was in conflict with another and the pilot did not want to turn away from traffic because of weather. ACN:1472510 (21 of50) Synopsis Air Traffic Controller and trainee reported a loss of separation between aircraft deviating for weather. ACN:1472483 Synopsis CL350 Captain reported using his Captain's authority to avoid thunderstorms during climb. ACN•. 1471766 (230f50) Synopsis
A Bombardier flight crew reported not being aware of the Precision Runway Monitor in use because it was not advertised on AT IS. ACN: 1471540 (240f50) Synopsis LR60 Captain reported momentary loss of control after encountering a developing thunderstorm on descent. ACN: 1471524 (250f50) Synopsis A General Aviation pilot reported canceling IFR then entering IMC weather without obtaining a new IFR clearance in a timely manner. The reporter indicated that the delay was due to staffing issues from ATC ACN: 1471374 (260f50) Synopsis E-175 flight crew performed an precautionary landing after troubleshooting pressurization door issue. ACN: 1471341 (270f50) Synopsis B737 flight crew reported on approach to DEN they had the wrong runway programmed in the FMS which caused a deviation on the visual approach. ACN: 1471135 (280f50) Synopsis A corporate pilot reported turning away from the Mexico ADIZ airspace after being unable to contact the Center due to frequency congestion. ACN•. 1471074 Synopsis M20 pilot reported encountering an updraft which caused him to climb into TPA Class B airspace. ACN•. 1470687 (300f50) Synopsis Air Carrier Captain reported diverting due to thunderstorms at the destination airport and fuel concerns.
ACN:1470661 (31 of50) Synopsis 3737 Captain reported executing a go-around at MCO after encountering a "microburst type event" on short final. ACN: 1470577 (320f50) Synopsis 3747 flight crew reported beginning to divert due to weather and minimum fuel but ended up going to the original destination. ACN:1470484 (33 of50) Synopsis A Center Controller reported allowing an aircraft to enter Military Operations Areas without coordination while working special military operations and dealing with weather deviations. ACN: 1470479 (340f50) Synopsis Two Controllers and two Dispatchers reported a flight encountered severe turbulence which resulted in injuries to flight attendants and passengers. ACN: 1470471 (350f50) Synopsis ZNY Center Controller reported the flight plan processing software did not detect that an aircraft filed a route which reversed course at a fix and into conflict with another aircraft at the same altitude. ACN: 1470460 (360f50) Synopsis Orlando TRACON Controller reported an airspace incursion and a loss of separation due to another Controller being overwhelmed with traffic and weather. ACN: 1470394 (370f50) Synopsis PA32 pilot reported loss of directional control in gusty crosswind conditions that resulted in a runway excursion. ACN•. 1469723 (380f50) Synopsis
Air carrier pilot reported difficulty identifying the MIJHG Runway 5 displaced threshold because of the prevailing visibility, the runway marking width, the low contrast from the surrounding runway surface, and no approach lights. ACN•. 1469614 (390f50) Synopsis 3737 flight crew reported that the First Officer experienced erroneous airspeed indications while flying through heavy rain. ACN: 1469590 (40 of50) Synopsis C90 Approach Controller reported that their sectors became overloaded and unorganized due to numerous weather related go-arounds combined with a lack of experienced controllers and supervision. ACN•. 1468984 (41 of50) Synopsis An ERJ-175 pilot reported windshear at on final which resulted in a 20 kt increase. Speed brakes and landing gear were extended to regain a stable profile for landing. ACN: 1468502 (420f50) Synopsis ZAU Center Controller reported their session was out of control due to traffic and no flow control from the Traffic Management Unit. ACN: 1468179 (430f50) Synopsis A flight instructor observer pilot reported not being assertive enough and allowed the pilot, who was presumably operating under VFR, to proceed to and land at an airport that was below VMC. ACN: 1468164 (440f50) Synopsis Atlanta Center Controller reported aircraft being cleared into known weather. ACN•. 1468132 (450f50) Synopsis Turbojet flight crew reported a missed approach due to the winds at ASE. The aircraft entered an area with a higher MSA due to a higher speed and greater turn radius.
ACN: 1468112 (460f50) Synopsis 3787 First Officer reported the controllers at ZSPD did not convey the actual delays to be expected during arrival, and did not expedite a clearance to the alternate after being advised of the low fuel state. ACN: 1467710 (470f50) Synopsis 3737 Captain reported departing DEN Runway 34L during variable windshear conditions and recorded 192 kts at Vr, 209 kts at lift off with indicated airspeeds of 158 kts and 163 kts respectively. The maximum tire speed was exceeded. ACN: 1467476 (48 of50) Synopsis ERJ175 flight crew reported receiving a stick shaker warning when intercepting the glide slope from above with the speed brakes deployed. ACN: 1467408 (490f50) Synopsis 3737 flight crew reported a weather diversion that resulted in a long delay and difficulties deplaning the passengers due to airport rules and equipment availability. ACN: 1467288 (500f50) Synopsis IAD Tower Controller reported that a flight crew missed the taxiway turnoff, turned around to exit, causing aircraft on final to be sent around. Instruction was too late and aircraft landed on occupied runway.
Report Narratives
Time / Day Date : 201710 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : SLC.Airport State Reference : UT Relative Position.Angle.RadiaI : 220 Relative Position. Distance. Nautical Miles • Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 8000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : S46 Aircraft Operator : Corporate 8 Make Model Name : Citationjet (C525/C526) Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Climb Route In Use.SID : LEETZ6 Airspace.CIass B : SLC Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.TRACON : S46 -CJI/ 11 / 111 / IV Make Model Name : Any Unknown or Unlisted Aircraft Manufacturer Airspace.CIass B : SLC Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Corporate Function.FIight Crew : Captain Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 14000 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 85 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 2000 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1488242 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown
Human Factors : Situational Awareness Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.Deviation - Track / Heading : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Wake Vortex Encounter Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Returned To Clearance Result.Flight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 While climbing out of SLC via the LEETZ 6 departure we encountered either wake turbulence from the aircraft ahead or severe environmental turbulence. The auto pilot disengaged and while hand flying the aircraft trying to keep the aircraft under control we missed the initial fix, PPIGG, by approximately 1.5 to 2 miles. SLC departure queried us and advised we were off the departure. They issued a heading to rejoin the departure and nothing more was said of the situation. There was no loss of separation from other aircraft. It was a VMC day so we were never in danger of terrain contact with all of that in full view. In hindsight, we should have advised ATC of the encounter with turbulence and let them know we had to deviate to get the aircraft under control. We were so preoccupied with dealing with the situation that we never advised ATC of our actions. Synopsis C525 Captain reported a track deviation during climb from SLC when they were distracted by turbulence or a wake vortex encounter.
Time / Day Date : 201710 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 11500 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility : Turbulence Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : 50 Light : Daylight Ceiling : CLR Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : DA40 Diamond Star Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Direct Airspace.Class E : ZZZ Component Aircraft Component : Seatbelt Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Failed Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 1600 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days . 15 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 150 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1485675
Human Factors : Situational Awareness Analyst Callback : Completed Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action Result.GeneraI : Physical Injury / Incapacitation Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 After passing northeast bound through a mountain pass, I warned my passengers to expect turbulence. We started to experience moderate turbulence and then encountered a sudden violent drop in altitude. All four of us hit our heads on the roof of the airplane. No serious injuries, but possible head and spinal issues noted the next day. Two headsets were broken. The seatbelts did not prevent head strikes and two seat belts became unfastened. The front right possibly was not securely "clicked" in place and the right rear came out of floor mount (looks like it was "clicked" into an inaccessible latch under back seat) and could not be reattached during or after the flight without maintenance assistance. Reported the incident as "severe turbulence" to Center, telling them we had struck our heads on roof Of airplane. They were concerned and asked if we needed assistance. Each controller that followed checked in on how we were doing. The Diamond seat belts are particularly difficult to fasten securely. They are hard for larger persons to reach and securely latch and they did not appear to be effective at preventing head strike. Maybe the lap belts should have been tighter? Wind on the windward side of the pass at this altitude was about 25-30 knots. I did not notice the wind speed at the time of the incident on lee side of pass, but noticed it was over 40 knots (tailwind) as we continued northeast bound toward our destination. We modified course to get farther away from the mountains for the remainder of the flight. Callback: 1 The reporter stated the seat belt that the passenger in the right seat was using may not have been completely fastened because of the difficulty of accessing the buckle. The reporter stated that in order to ensure that the front seat belts are properly fastened you need to open the door to gain access to the buckle (especially if you're overweight). The reporter also stated one of the seat belts for the passengers in the rear seat became unlatched from the mount (which rendered it ineffective) and had to be reattached by Maintenance. Reattaching the seat belt required removing the rear seat. The reporter also stated that due to the low ceiling, the seat belts, as designed, will not prevent you from contacting the ceiling with your head during turbulence. The reporter stated that he broke his headset as a result of hitting his head on the ceiling.
Synopsis Diamond DA40 pilot reported encountering severe turbulence while traversing a mountain pass. He and all the passengers hit their heads on the ceiling when the seat belts became ineffective.
Time / Day Date : 201709 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZZZ.ARTCC State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 37000 Environment Flight Conditions : Mixed Weather Elements / Visibility : Thunderstorm Weather Elements / Visibility : Turbulence Weather Elements / Visibility. Visibility : 10 Light : Daylight Ceiling.Single Value : 37000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : EMB-505 / Phenom 300 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Training Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Descent Route In Use.STAR : ZZZZZ Airspace.CIass A : ZZZ Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Instructor Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 13000 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 250 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 850 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1481209 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew
Communication Breakdown.Party2 Analyst Callback : Completed Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal : ATC Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Function.FIight Crew : Trainee Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Private Experience.Flight Crew. Total : 2500 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 100 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 70 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1481177 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Track / Heading : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.FIight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Weather Narrative: 1 Instructor/Mentor Pilot was acting [as] PF. During the descent briefing the PF/IP informed the PIT (Pilot in Training) that the weather over the arrival was deteriorating. XM Weather and Active Weather Radar was painting numerous cells starting to top at FL400. Literally the entire area was bubbling up with convective activity creating a dangerous situation. Descent/Approach briefing completed the THREATS were clearly outlined as Severe Weather both on the arrival and the wind conditions at the field. [While cruising] at FL450 the Controller issued a clearance to descend to FL400. PIT (Pilot in Training) doing the radios advised the Controller to stand by. After conferring with the IP/PF both pilots agreed it was much safer to stay at FL450. PIT reported to [ATC] that we wished to stay at FL450 until we passed the worst of the weather. The Controller DEMANDED a descent. Again the PIT with authorization from the PF/IP advised we were unable to descend. The Controller then assigned us a heading of 210 and demanded a
descent. The PF/IP made the call to begin the descent and try to help the Controller out. We accepted the 210 heading and descend to FL350. We heard the Controller ask for an expeditious descent through FL370. Upon rolling out on the heading of 210 we were closing in on a large cell. We asked the Controller for a 230/240 heading for weather. When we turned to that heading, it was obvious we were going to go through the tops of another cell. Now unable to get on the radio due to numerous aircraft requesting VECTORS FOR WEATHER we turned to a SAFE heading of 260 and at first break in the radio, advised the Controller we now needed a 260 heading for weather. The Controller replied with "You are not cleared for a 260 heading". We again advised "sir, we need the 260 heading for weather!" again the Controller said "you are not cleared on to that heading". This left the crew no option but to [override the Controller] for safety. We immediately took a picture of the weather radar and view out of the window showing the imminent threat. Pilots should keep in mind that an XM Weather image may be 20-30 [minutes] old and that what matters most is the image out of the window and on the weather radar. The atmosphere had clearly reached a boiling point making safe flight very much in doubt. If we had the time we would have squawked 7700 prior to making the turn to 260 but it is always Aviate, Navigate and then Communicate. Didn't have time in a dynamic situation. I stand behind the decisions we took as a crew to have a safe conclusion to our flight. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis EMB-505 flight crew reported using Captain's authority to circumnavigate an area of thunderstorms.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : MIA.Airport State Reference : FL Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 1300 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility : Rain Weather Elements / Visibility : Thunderstorm Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : MIA Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Widebody Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Cargo / Freight Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Nav In Use : GPS Flight Phase : Final Approach Route In Use.Other Airspace.CIass B : MIA Component Aircraft Component : Autoflight System Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Improperly Operated Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.FIight Crew : Captain Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1477252 Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Situational Awareness Person : 2
Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1477254 Events Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Excursion From Assigned Altitude Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : CFIT / CFIT Detector.Automation : Aircraft Terrain Warning Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Returned To Clearance Result.Flight Crew : Became Reoriented Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Uneventful descent into Miami while avoiding thunderstorms. Vectors to intercept final course for RNAV/GPS Rwy 26R. We kept the speed up to get on the ground before a series of thunderstorms got to the airport and received shortened vectors to final inside the NAYIB fix on the approach. On final and after confirming FMS speed, Nav, and profile MDA, while consulting with each other about rain showers close to the airport, we noticed that the airplane was descending below the profile glidepath and I disconnected the Autopilot to arrest the descent. We descended to 1300, below the minimum 1500 ft for that portion of the approach before the Final Approach Fix ZARER. We immediately started a correction back to published altitude. At that point we received a yellow GROUND PROXIMITY alert for several buildings 2 to 3 miles in front and on both sides of the approach course. After confirming we were well clear of all obstacles and still in a safe position for landing we opted to visually continue the approach and landing. Distraction with weather during the approach. Clarify before the approach the duties (i.e. who will be looking at the radar and who will be closely monitoring the instruments). Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis Air carrier flight crew reported descending below the MIA Runway 26R RNAV Approach profile. The autopilot did not capture the vertical path and the crew did not detect it until they were low causing a GPWS warning.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : KZAK.ARTCC State Reference : CA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 33000 Environment Flight Conditions : Marginal Weather Elements / Visibility : Turbulence Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : K ZAK Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Widebody Transport Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Cargo / Freight Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Oceanic Airspace.Class A : KZAK Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1476596 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Time Pressure Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1476603
Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Track / Heading : All Types Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Returned To Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Weather Narrative: 1 About 3+26 into flight at FL330, after passing N46E170, we encountered moderate to severe turbulence with associated "pop-up" radar returns beneath the aircraft. We couldn't see as we were at the cloud tops. As Pilot Monitoring, I sent SF Radio [ARINC] a message requesting left deviation for weather; we had radar indications that prevented a right deviation. SF Radio's response wasn't timely enough and we decided to deviate left off of our Strategic Lateral Offset Procedure. We reviewed the Long Range Navigation (LRN) for weather deviations and were aware of parameters and altitude requirements of a deviation off course for weather. Our left deviation kept the aircraft at a safe distance away magenta indications on the radar. SF Radio replied with "unable deviation left due to traffic." By this time we had already deviated left. Upon receiving this message the flying pilot turned right to return on course, while avoiding weather. SF Radio sent another message indicating they showed us off course. We replied that we were back on course. Intent is to communicate why we deviated for weather and that the crew was aware of off track deviation procedures. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis Air Carrier flight crew reported a deviation for weather in oceanic airspace, after deviating a message was received from ATC that denied the deviation.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : All.TRACON State Reference : AK Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 600 Environment Weather Elements / Visibility : Fog Weather Elements / Visibility : Rain Weather Elements / Visibility : Windshear Weather Elements / Visibility.VisibiIity : 3 Ceiling.SingIe Value : 1700 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC/ Advisory.TRACON : All Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Small Aircraft, Low Wing, 1 Eng, Fixed Gear Crew Size.Number Of Crew : I Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Descent Route In Use : VFR Route Airspace.Class C : ANC Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.TRACON : All Aircraft Operator : Military Make Model Name : Military Mission : Training Nav In Use. Localizer/Glideslope/ILS Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use : Vectors Airspace.Class C : ANC Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot : ILS Runway 6 Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial
Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 11000 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 201 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 4200 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1476347 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Flight Crew Miss Distance.HorizontaI : O Miss Distance.VerticaI : 600 When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Airspace Structure Narrative: 1 I was approaching Anchorage from the north in an ADS-B in/out equipped [aircraft]. I called Approach for radar services for routing for landing. I was given an immediate Part 93 Deviation in the PAMR segment. Weather was raining, fog, getting dark with few clouds and 600-700, and rain obscuring visibility to 3-5 miles. Heavy wind and windshear occurring with the traffic at ANC being routed in for the ILS for Runway 15. There was significant traffic using Approach and I was watching the flow of the vectoring to the ILS and handoff to the Tower. Heavy jet traffic was reporting wind shear and turbulence. I was low at 600 feet as I had little wind and below the ground surface shear point. Also in the mix was a [military aircraft], which was doing practice approaches and the TRACON controller twice told traffic that the [military aircraft] was doing "Touch and go's" and then corrected that to missed approaches. He was vectoring the [military aircraft] around very non-standard with tight turns and low altitudes. When I was approaching the [military aircraft] was returning to PAED on a visual. The ATC controller gave him a weather report of heavy precipitation between the [military aircraft] and PAED in the area which I was at the time. I am not sure if it was requested by the [military aircraft] or suggested by the controller, but the [military aircraft] was then cleared for the ILS on Runway 6 at PAED. The controller vectored the [military aircraft] onto the ILS INSIDE THE FAP! His clearance also said to maintain 1600 feet until established on the ILS. The controller then cancelled my FAR Part 93 deviation in and handed me off to my Tower with a "caution wake turbulence" warning. I switched to Tower and now had a visual on the [military aircraft] that was, according to my ADS-B, less than 800 feet vertical separation and he was coming right over me. I would like to see the track but it appeared that the [military aircraft] was below the ILS glideslope. I took evasive action by wide open throttle and full dive to the water to try to get east of the [military aircraft] and get the largest
amount of vertical separation. I think this was way too much "cowboy" action by the TRACON controller and put lives in danger. If the [military aircraft] wanted to go IFR and ILS approach into PAED why the heck he was not vectored out to join at an IAP or outside the FAP! This did not need to happen. There was no emergency or rush to put the [military aircraft] back into PAED that was communicated on the frequency I was on. Doing "touch and go's" or even the missed practice approaches that they really were at ANC at a time of heavy traffic flow and difficult conditions of wind shear, turbulence and low weather was questionable as the ILS was stacked up with traffic. What makes the air traffic work well in this area is that the flows of traffic at all of the airports is usually predictable, and with ADS-B even a "little general aviation guy operation" like me can get a good sense of where the traffic is and will be due to the normal approach/departure flows out of the airports. This was a fly in the ointment and seemingly only the T RACON controller and the USAF flyboys knew what was going to be coming next. I am available to discuss this, although I am flying commercially and not contactable much of the day until I return. Synopsis A single engine pilot reported approach control vectored a military aircraft over his aircraft which the pilot felt was unsafe.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 14000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : FBO 10 Make Model Name : PA-28 Cherokee/Archer/Dakota/Pillan/Warrior Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Landing Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.CIass G : ZZZ Maintenance Status. Maintenance Type : Unscheduled Maintenance Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved : Repair Component Aircraft Component : Stabilizer Fairing Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Improperly Operated Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : FBO Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.FIight Crew : Student Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 144 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 19 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 6 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1476074 Human Factors : Training / Qualification Human Factors : Situational Awareness
Events Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Unstabilized Approach Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Object Detector. Person : Maintenance Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : Routine Inspection Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action Result.Flight Crew : Regained Aircraft Control Result.Flight Crew : Executed Go Around / Missed Approach Result.Aircraft : Aircraft Damaged Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Weather Narrative: 1 During an authorized long distance cross-country student solo flight, attempted landing at ZZZ on runway 18. Wind was > 10 knots with gusts from 260 degrees. Had 25 degrees flaps. As the plane was about to touch down, a wind gust blew plane from right to left and past the edge of the runway. Was unable to maintain alignment with the runway. Executed a go-around and as power was brought in, the nose began to raise up slightly and as such the tail lowered. The left endcap of the stabilator struck a runway light. The impact was felt in the yoke. Remained in the pattern, and landed on runway 18. Had the plane refueled. Inspected the plane for damage. The left plastic stabilator endcap had a hole in it on the leading edge. Filled out an incident report at the airport terminal to report the damage to the runway light. An aircraft mechanic was available to effect a repair by fabricating and attaching a sheet metal patch. The plane was inspected for additional damage, none was found. Upon completion of the temporary repair, the plane was returned to service. The mechanic did not provide documentation for the repair other than a description on the cash receipt. I was ignorant of the fact that this is improper maintenance record keeping and subsequently learned that the aircraft should not have been placed back in service without proper documentation. The details described in this report were reported to the FBO/owner of the aircraft upon return two days later. The incident could have been avoided by selecting another airport prior to the flight when it was learned from a NOTAM that [other] runways [at ZZZ] were closed. The airport was chosen specifically because it offered multiple runways. This fact was missed because of fixated focus on local weather for making the go/no go decision for the flight and was not noted and added to the plan of flight. The fuel burn rate was over-estimated and there was more than adequate fuel available to have deviated from the plan of flight to another airport. The cross wind component was at the margin of my skill level and surpassed by the gusts, so upon listening to AWOS another opportunity to deviate was missed. The FAR requirements for signed documentation for returning an aircraft to service following a repair should have been known (43.9, 91.407). Synopsis
A PA28 Student Pilot reported that after damaging the aircraft during a go-around, the repair made by a local mechanic did not have the proper documentation.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Weather Elements / Visibility : Turbulence Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Regional Jet 700 ER/LR (CRJ700) Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Maintenance Status. Maintenance Type : Unscheduled Maintenance Maintenance Status. Maintenance Items Involved : Repair Component Aircraft Component : Cabin Furnishing Aircraft Reference : X Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person : Company Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Maintenance : Other / Unknown Qualification.Maintenance : Powerplant Qualification.Maintenance : Airframe ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1476062 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Maintenance Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Illness Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Maintenance When Detected : Routine Inspection
Result.GeneraI : Physical Injury / Incapacitation Result.Aircraft : Aircraft Damaged Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 Flight diverted to ZZZ for medical emergency [and] it was reported that the flight attendant fell when turbulence was encountered. The flight attendant and 2 passengers were transported to the hospital. The Dispatch Supervisor asked the Captain on a recorded phone line if the turbulence was severe and the Captain said No it was not severe. I picked up a roll over call from an open desk the Captain called and reported a broken armrest they were going to reposition the Aircraft to ZZZI. After talking with the supervisor it was decided to defer the whole seat and have ZZZI Maintenance repair it when it arrived since there was going to be no passengers on the flight. When the flight arrived in ZZZI I had arranged for Maintenance to meet the flight and repair the armrest. The Captain called in and talked to another Maintenance Controller and told him on a recorded phone line that he did in fact have a severe turbulence event prior to diverting to ZZZ with the medical emergency. It was reported to us by the Line Mechanic in ZZZI that in the lav there was blue juice on the ceiling and walls also there was soda pop on the ceiling in the main cabin area. None of this was reported to us in ZZZ by the crew. From what was reported to Line Maintenance it sounds like the beverage cart went airborne hit the Flight Attendant and hit [a] seat causing the damage. ZZZI Maintenance took some pictures showing the extent of the damage seatback pockets were filled with soda cans and bottles of alcohol that were picked up off the floor by passengers. The captain flat out lied on how bad the turbulence was. I don't know if deferring the whole seat was the right decision with it going to be a reposition flight and no passengers it was the easiest thing to do after discussing it with the Supervisor. If the Captain would have been honest about what happened we would have gone in a completely different direction. I trusted that the information that was given to me was correct and that the Captain was being honest on what happened. I don't know if I had asked the questions again if he would have given the same answers. I think the Crew did not want to get stuck in ZZZ. First and foremost if the Captain would have been honest in ZZZ and told us he had severe turbulence we could have handled the Inspection there. It is getting tougher to work shorthanded in Maintenance Control and try to cover more than 1 desk, if the same crew calls in more than once they can end up talking to multiple Controllers. Even though all the questions had been asked I should have asked them again. Synopsis A Maintenance Controller reported that he received a report that a Bombardier CRJ-700 had minor cabin damage due to turbulence, later it was found to have severe cabin damage.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 6000 Environment Flight Conditions : IMC Weather Elements / Visibility : Rain Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : SF 340B Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Climb Airspace.Class E : ZZZ Component : 1 Aircraft Component : Attitude Indicator(Gyro/Horizon/ADI) Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Failed Component : 2 Aircraft Component : Compass (HSI/ETC) Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1475960 Events
Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Landed As Precaution Result.Flight Crew : Returned To Departure Airport Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Equipment / Tooling Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 After departure, 15 minutes into flight, we leveled off at 6,000 ft, entered IMC conditions and light to moderate rain. First Officer's Electronic Attitude Direction Indicator (EADI) and Electronic Horizontal Situation Indicator (EHSI) screens went black. Captain's screens also flickered on/off at the same time. The First Officer's screens did not come back on right away. Minutes later FO HSI screen did come back on but ADI did not. Controls were handed over to me immediately and we requested a return back to [departure airport] and out of IMC conditions. Landed with no incident. Synopsis SF 340B Captain reported returning to the departure airport after loss of First Officer's attitude and heading indicators.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZZZ.ARTCC State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 10000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 1600 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : SR22 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Direct Airspace.CIass E : ZZZ Component 10 Aircraft Component : Navigational Equipment and Processing Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification Flight Crew : Private Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 1905 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 28 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 1260 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1475763 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events
Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Smoke / Fire / Fumes / Odor Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Diverted Result.Flight Crew : Landed As Precaution Result.Flight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Result.FIight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 In cruise, having just passed over ZZZ airport. Was navigating to fly through a wide gap in thunderstorms approximately 40 nm south of position. Noticed the Avidyne Multifunction Display (MFD) flicker, followed immediately by the smell of electrical burning/arcing. Elected to turn 180 deg immediately and informed ATC my intention to land at ZZZ with priority handling. I had my copilot get the ATIS for landing information while I descended rapidly through the OVC layer. No fire, no smoke. Display remained on during descent, but smell continued. Due to altitude and short distance to ZZZ, I overshot airport and had to spiral back, all in IMC. Broke out of OVC on downwind to runway, saw runway and landed visually. Was able to taxi to the ramp and shut down without further incident. Call made to ZZZ tower as requested. In hindsight, I could have pulled the breaker for the MFD and relied on my GPS or iPad for navigation to ZZZ. The display continued to function without smoke, however, and I used it to locate the airport as I spiraled down in IMC. Synopsis SR22 pilot reported that during cruise the Multifunction Display flickered then he smelled electrical burning/arching.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : IAD.Airport State Reference : DC Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 22000 Environment Light : Night Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZDC Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : A319 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Nav In Use : GPS Flight Phase : Descent Route In Use.STAR : CAVLR3 Airspace.CIass A : ZDC Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory Center : ZDC Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Flight Plan : IFR Flight Phase : Descent Airspace.Class A : ZDC Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Function.FIight Crew : Captain Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (AT P) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1474961 Analyst Callback : Attempted Events
Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Overshoot Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Wake Vortex Encounter Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Returned To Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Ambiguous Narrative: 1 - Non Weather Related On the CAVLR3 arrival into IAD at FL 220 we were cleared to "descend vial'. The FO was flying [and] he put 6000 ft in the altitude window. I went off COMI to say goodbye to passengers and give arrival brief. We encountered some turbulence and autopilot disengaged. I came back to COMI and noticed we were below profile and the FO was correcting manually. Exact altitude loss unknown, recaptured profile. No word from ATC. PIREP: possible mountain wave or wake turbulence. Unknown or possible attention to aircraft trailing. Also weather could have been a factor. Suggest offsetting further from aircraft ahead? Possibly intervene sooner. Synopsis A319 Captain reported descending below the profile on descent to IAD when they encountered turbulence that may have been a wake encounter.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : COS.Airport State Reference : CO Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 8500 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Cessna Single Piston Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew . 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Cruise Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1474872 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Excursion From Assigned Altitude Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Loss Of Aircraft Control Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Regained Aircraft Control Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Weather Narrative: 1 - Non Weather Related Flight to COS on an IFR flight plan. After crossing LUFSE at 9000 ft we turned south on V389 after calling COS approach on 124.0, we were told to expect 'vectors for the Visual 17R' into COS. On V389, approximately 15 NM north east of COS, we received the first vector of heading 230 for the Visual 17R. About 8 NM ahead we could see light rain shafts, that we associated would have some downdrafts. I requested a left deviation of 20 degrees to avoid the rain shaft. During the deviation of 20 degrees we started to experience downdrafts. The aircraft began pitching up to around 8 degrees nose up and began decreasing in airspeed. Full power was already applied and aircraft slowed to around 66 KIAS and was unable to hold altitude, at the same time the autopilot was disconnected and straight and level flight was maintained. The aircraft continued to pitch up to what was around 12 degrees. I made COS Approach on 124.0 aware that we were descending in what occurred to be a downdraft at the altitude of 8800 ft, during which our VSI indicated a descent at 1400 FPM. The aircraft stall warning briefly sounded. I was told by approach to maintain 9000, and I continued to tell approach we were unable to maintain 9000 with the current situation at hand. They understood and told us that the minimum enroute altitude was 9000 and to turn to heading 150 for an emergency vector. We complied with Approach's instructions and began the turn, which was about the time the downdraft ceased, we were able to maintain level flight at 8500 and continue the climb back to 9000. At 8500 feet we cancelled our IFR flight plan because we could maintain our own terrain and obstacle clearance and were in VFR conditions. The rest of the flight was continued without incident under VMC with flight following with approach to COS. Corrective action was taken on the event during the loss of altitude due to weather. Cancelling IFR earlier during the loss of altitude would have relieved the controller of having to issue emergency vector due to altitude below MEA. If on an IFR flight plan, consider flying higher than the MEA assigned for the routing to account for unknown variables, such as weather. Synopsis Cessna pilot reported being unable to maintain altitude and airspeed due to a downdraft on approach to COS.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 0001-0600 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8767-300 and 300 ER Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Mission : Cargo / Freight Flight Phase : Landing Route In Use : Visual Approach Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Function.FIight Crew : Captain Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1474295 Events Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Other / Unknown Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Unstabilized Approach Detector. Person : Flight Crew Result.Aircraft : Aircraft Damaged Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Weather Narrative: 1
First Officer flying a visual approach. Winds on ATIS during descent planning was reported 17010. When cleared to land tower reported wind 170 at 14 G 22. Approach seemed stable in the gusty conditions. At about 50 FT, the auto throttles were disconnected. Aircraft had a hard landing and bounced. At this point Captain took aircraft and landed. No problem stopping aircraft in remaining runway. Logbook write up was completed and was informed by mechanics that no damage was found from the landing. Synopsis 3767-300 reported that due to weather conditions the aircraft had a hard.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Weather Elements / Visibility Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier : Windshear Make Model Name : 8737-700 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Takeoff Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1474226 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1474545 Events Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence
Detector.Automation : Aircraft Other Automation Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : Flight Cancelled / Delayed Result.FIight Crew : Returned To Gate Result.Flight Crew : Rejected Takeoff Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Weather Narrative: 1 Just prior takeoff we received a wind shear alert of 20 knots off the end of the runway. We declined our takeoff clearance, and ran performance weight and balance for wind shear. While waiting for our numbers, another airline departed to the northwest without issue. After reconfiguring for a precautionary takeoff profile with performance weight and balance numbers and briefing the potential for wind shear, we were cleared for takeoff with a 330 heading to avoid the cell off the end of the runway. While taking the runway, Tower issued another 20 knot wind shear alert. Seeing the cell off the end of the runway both visually and on radar, and seeing a clear path to the northwest, we decided to depart with the added margins afforded by the precautionary takeoff profile. At about 90 knots, we received the PWS (Predictive Wind Shear) warning "wind shear ahead." I announced, "Reject, I have the aircraft." Autobrake Disarm illuminated, and we brought the aircraft to a relatively gentle stop with TRs (Thrust Reversers) and speed brakes. We cleared the runway and briefed the FAs (Flight Attendants) and the Passengers. We ran performance weight and balance Brake Cooling numbers, coordinated with Dispatch, Chief Pilot on Call, Maintenance Control, and determined that after brake cooling, we would be safe to depart with a revised fuel load to reflect the new conditions. In hindsight, we did some things well and others we did not. Having had to reject for PWS Warning, the red flags were certainly there to not takeoff in the first place. But, we were wise to refuse our initial takeoff clearance so that we could acquire wind shear takeoff data from performance weight and balance. The reject decision was assertive and decisive, and transfer of control went well. However, the FO (First Officer) debriefed that it was difficult to hear my reject call over the wind shear warning. Also, he mentioned that he might have inadvertently hit the brakes when I rejected the takeoff, which could explain the autobrake disarm (we did not get the max braking of the RTO (Rejected Takeoff). After turning off, while we did brief the FAs immediately and then the Passengers, we neglected to reference the QRH for the R TO. Additionally, I did not announce to "Remain seated." I believe a contributing factor was that the reject was relatively benign due to the RTO autobrake not taking over and being only at 90 knots. It wasn't the "screeching halt" we've practiced many times. Once off the runway, the FO was quick to suggest releasing the brakes, and we ran the performance weight and balance brake cooling numbers, contacted Dispatch, and conferenced with the Chief Pilot on Call, Maintenance Control to ensure that we did not have to return to the gate, and that we could continue for takeoff after brake cooling with fuel onboard. Maintenance did ask if our performance computer showed a "high energy" stop. We informed them that we no longer use the performance computer. I tried to look up what
the performance weight and balance would say in that case, but was unable to find an example. Also, once we had new numbers for takeoff, we found that there really isn't a procedure for takeoff after an R TO. We ran all checklists from Before Start through Before Takeoff as a precaution (rearming the autobrake, for example). I was happy with how we used CRM throughout the process. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis 3737 flight crew reported a rejected takeoff due to a predictive windshear warning.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : TWF.Airport State Reference : ID Relative Position.Angle.Radial : 210 Relative Position. Distance. Nautical Miles : Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 17500 Environment Flight Conditions : Mixed 65 Weather Elements / Visibility : Haze / Smoke Weather Elements / Visibility : Rain Weather Elements / Visibility : Thunderstorm Weather Elements / Visibility.VisibiIity : 10 Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZLC Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Cessna 337 Super Skymaster Crew Size.Number Of Crew 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Personal Nav In Use : GPS Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Direct Airspace.CIass A : ZLC Airspace.CIass E : ZLC Airspace.Special Use : JARBRIDGE MOA Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.FIight Crew : Private Experience.Flight Crew. Total : 2192 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 22 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 594 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1474198 Human Factors : Situational Awareness
Events Anomaly Airspace Violation : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Overshoot Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : VFR In IMC Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Returned To Clearance Result.Flight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.FIight Crew : Exited Penetrated Airspace Result.Flight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Weather Narrative: 1 Was VFR enroute to BZN at 15500 feet with flight following talking to SLC Center on 134.1. I contacted SLC Center and communicated I was going to climb to 17500 feet as I was approaching clouds ahead. As I was climbing up over the clouds my climb was accelerating upward due to convective activity and I was contacted by SLC who saw that I had climbed above 17500 and in fact had exceeded 18000 and was therefore in Class A airspace. I saw that it looked like I could descend back lower heading to the west but I decided I should request an IFR clearance to be able to fly in Class A airspace and climb higher. Before I could call I was contacted by SLC and told that I was to contact the military frequency for Jarbidge and was given a clearance direct to Mountain Home. I turned to the left toward Mountain home and contacted the military facility. I believe the frequency was 118.05. I contacted the military facility and was told that I needed to descend to a lower altitude. I told the controller that it looked like I would be able to descend up ahead. I failed to tell the controller about the convective activity I was experiencing and that I was above the clouds. However due to the aggressive convective activity of the storm building beneath me, I then asked the controller for an IFR clearance to BZN and was told that this was not possible within the military airspace that I was now in. I was called back by the military controller and told to contact SLC Center again and they were going to work something out for me. I contacted SLC Center again and I was given an IFR clearance to 21000 to BZN with vectors. I was given a heading of 070 which I could see was to fly me to the east out of the MOA. However I replied that I was unable to turn to the east due to a large buildup/ thunderstorm to the east on my right side. I continued to turn east as much I was able to and soon got on a heading of 070. In the process, the convective activity pushed me up beyond 21000 and I was contacted to get back down to my assigned altitude. In the middle of dealing with maneuvering around the thunderstorm to the east during the climb and the convective activity my engines were overheating due to the decreased cooling effect of the thinner air. At the same time all Of this was going on I was managing changes to cowl flaps, mixture, power settings and airspeed to get the engine CHT temperatures under control. In the middle of this the convective activity was now pushing me down lower and I requested to descend to 19000. The convective activity carried me down below 19000 and I was again contacted and had
to climb back up to the assigned altitude of 19000. I could see that I was staying south of restricted area R3204A and B as I exited the MOA. I realized that I should have executed a 180 degree turn when I was pushed above 17500 feet to get out of the convective area that I had flown into. Then I could have requested an IFR clearance up to a higher altitude prior to beginning my flight. I had in fact filed an IFR flight along the route I was flying and should have activated that flight plan when I took off so that I could have easily requested a change in altitude when I encountered the bad weather south of TWF. I am very thankful for the assistance of the controllers that helped me manage this difficult weather situation that I flew into. I plan to get more training to learn how to handle higher altitude VFR to IFR transitions. My experience with IFR flight at high altitudes has been new learning to fly the pressurized Skymaster. I also realize now that military controllers are not trained to handle IFR traffic for separation since their job is to manage military aircraft that are trying to intercept one another. Synopsis Cessna Skymaster pilot reported inadvertently climbing VFR into Class A airspace due to convective activity. He negotiated with the Center Controller and a Military Controller for a new IFR clearance away from the convective activity, restricted airspace, and out of the MOA to his destination.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZFW.ARTCC State Reference : TX Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 7000 Environment Flight Conditions : IMC Weather Elements / Visibility : Rain Weather Elements / Visibility : Hail Weather Elements / Visibility : Thunderstorm Weather Elements / Visibility : Turbulence Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : 0.5 Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 5000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZFW Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Skyhawk 172/Cutlass 172 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Training Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use.Other Airspace.Class E : ZFW Component Aircraft Component : Engine Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.FIight Crew : Instructor Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1473844
Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Overcame Equipment Problem Result.Flight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.FIight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Weather Narrative: 1 Myself and another pilot had made the flight on an IFR flight plan. On the way up to Kansas, thunderstorms were to the west of us, but we flew east of them without any issue. Upon arriving in Kansas, we picked up another pilot who was also instrument rated, and he and I flew in the front seats on the way back, with the previous pilot sitting in the backseat. We flew VFR to an airport in northern Oklahoma without issue, where we fueled the airplane. We then filed an IFR flight plan and continued our trip back home. The initial line of thunderstorms had passed through to the east of our route, but another line was building over Oklahoma City. We deviated several times to avoid areas of moderate and heavy precipitation by using ATC suggestions and XM weather (NEXRAD). After successfully navigating the storms for some time, we were passed to Fort Worth Center. We requested a few deviations to the right by using the XM radar in order to go around the building storms on the back side. At this time, it had been at least 30 minutes since we had received an advisory from ATC for moderate to heavy precipitation. We had found a gap in the storms that was showing on our XM radar to be green and yellow areas. After 10 minutes or so in this area, the radar updated and showed us rapidly approaching a pink area of extreme precipitation. Unable to avoid it quickly enough, we flew into the precipitation and experienced extreme precipitation, severe turbulence, light hail (pea sized at most), and heavy downdrafts. After flying in the extreme precipitation for 20 seconds or so, we experienced a momentary loss of power which we expect to be due to the ingestion of water in the engine intake. We informed ATC that we were experiencing "engine troubles" and severe turbulence, and got radar vectors out of the storm. After exiting the precipitation, the engine power resumed and we continued the flight without Issue. Synopsis C172 pilot reported entering an area of extreme precipitation and severe turbulence while using NEXRAD XM weather to circumnavigate storm areas.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : COS.Airport State Reference : CO Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 1000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility Weather Elements / Visibility Weather Elements / Visibility Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier : Thunderstorm : Turbulence : Windshear Make Model Name : Medium Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Flight Phase : Landing Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : Human Factors : Time Pressure Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function. Flight Crew : First Officer ASRS Report Number Accession Number : Human Factors : Time Pressure Events 1473689 1473689
Anomaly.Deviation - Speed : All Types Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Unstabilized Approach Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue Detector. Person : Flight Crew Result.Flight Crew : Landed As Precaution Result.Flight Crew : Executed Go Around / Missed Approach Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Weather Narrative: 1 The flight started normally. My First Officer (FO) and I discussed the weather surrounding COS before and during the flight. Noticeable virga was on the approach end about 10 miles north of 17L. The airport was not reporting windshear or wind gusts on the last ATIS. A flaps 45 landing was used on the first approach. A red wind shear appeared and we executed a go-around. I am not sure, but we may have gone over 200 kts during the go-around in Class C. The weather was still VFR for COS and the storms were moving away from the airport. The weather had thunderstorm activity between COS and our filed alternate. A quick discussion of our options resulted in another attempt to land at COS. On the second approach, we used a flaps 22 landing. Another red windshear appeared and we once again executed another go-around. Our best option still appeared to be another attempt to land at COS, but on the third attempt I flew the approach. For the third time, we got another windshear warning that quickly went away along with a soft "sink rate, sink rate". With the fuel running low, a flight to KDEN would have put us in a min fuel status and there was weather that would require additional vectors off course. On all three approaches, the windshear felt minimal and I did not expect to get a windshear message with the storms at its distance away from the field. Although we were told the storms were moving away from the field, I did not want to risk having the storm change directions and further limit our options. Also, the windshear message went away and I adjusted the aircraft to not allow another sink rate aural message. After quickly reviewing our options, we agreed to continue the approach and land in the interest of safety. The aircraft was fully configured above 1000 AGL and no aircraft limitations were exceeded, although I was fast on the approach. The threats included windshear, thunderstorms in the vicinity, thunderstorms enroute to our filed alternate, thunderstorms approaching our filed alternate, a high workload environment, and a steadily decreasing amount of fuel. Narrative: 2 After a normal flight with myself as pilot flying, during our arrival brief the Captain and I briefed the possibility of a go around due to a small thunderstorm north of the COS airport and the steps involved in go around. Our alternate was DEN with thunderstorms expected in the vicinity. As we approached the field, still with approach control, we visually saw the thunderstorm which was about 6 miles north of the 17 L runway. Approach informed us about the thunderstorm as well and said no aircraft had any issues with getting in and no unusual weather alerts were given. It was my leg to fly, the Captain and I briefed the risks and that we would need to be fully configured early to avoid an unstable approach. This would be a flaps 45 landing. Flaps 8 was called for early and then gear down and flaps 22
was called for on our extended left base and inside outer marker. Turning final, I asked for flaps 45 and landing check. I was a little high and corrected and was stabilized by 1000 feet, I believe about 1 to 1.5 miles from the end of runway we received a Windshear red alert, thus we executed a go-around. We climbed out to our assigned altitude and reconfigured, briefed what happened and I quickly asked either the tower or the approach control, what direction the thunderstorm was moving, they said storm was basically moving ENE away from the field. The Captain and I briefed the approach and landing again, believing that it was safe to execute another approach and landing, but instead using flaps 22. We executed the approach with the same result, a Windshear almost in the same spot. We executed a go around and after a quick discussion and review of the weather and weather at the alternate, I transferred the controls to the Captain so he could execute the approach in the interest of safety. We briefed the weather/risks, approach and landing, and executed a flaps 22 landing with the same results, a Windshear warning, however, the warning was only on for a matter of maybe 2 seconds and went away then a soft sink rate, however quickly went away. After a quick discussion we both felt the safest option was to land the aircraft. The short final was stable, however fast (which was briefed) and we landed with no further issue. At no time did I feel nervous or that we were operating in a unsafe manner. I believe the Captain acted and operated in the most professional manner. Threats included windshear, thunderstorms in the vicinity, thunderstorms enroute to and at our alternate, a high workload environment and a always decreasing amount of fuel. After first approach and go around we could have diverted to our alternate, however before we even left ZZZ I checked the radar and Denver had thunderstorms building to the west and south west and also Pueblo would normally be a good alternate but they had storms as well. We could have diverted to the alternate with the same results, but with landing with even lower fuel. We could have executed a hold but, according to controllers, the storm was not moving much. Synopsis Flight crew reported windshear warnings while attempting to land at the COS airport that resulted in two missed approaches. A third attempt was attempted in lieu of a diversion, and a successful landing was accomplished.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZZZ.ARTCC State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 8000 Environment Flight Conditions : Mixed Weather Elements / Visibility : Rain Weather Elements / Visibility : Thunderstorm Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 5000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Taxi Make Model Name : Learjet 36 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 135 Flight Plan : IFR Flight Phase : Descent Route In Use : Direct Airspace.CIass E : ZZZ Component : 1 Aircraft Component : Window Ice/Rain System Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Component : 2 Aircraft Component : Attitude Indicator(Gyro/Horizon/ADI) Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Component : 3 Aircraft Component : Autopilot Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Taxi
Function.FIight Crew : Captain Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Engineer Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 10000 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 60 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 200 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1473122 Human Factors : Troubleshooting Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Speed : All Types Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Overcame Equipment Problem Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 Activated Windshield Heat (WSH) ten minutes prior to top of descent. Seconds later, annunciator panel illuminated "WSH overheat" accompanied by strong odor throughout aircraft. Deactivated WSH until Overheat (OH) light extinguished. Re-activated WSH. WSH OH light illuminated again. Despite repeated attempts to sustain normal operation, WSH OH light re-illuminated at even minimal settings. Descending through FL240 autopilot disconnected. Attempts to reconnect accompanied by un-commanded right roll. With left windshield occluded, storm clouds interspersed throughout flight path, and the AP inop, considered switching pilot flying (PF) and pilot monitoring (PM) duties with SIC, whose windshield was clear, possibly due to absorbed heat radiating from glare-shield (black) after prolonged flight with sun on right side of aircraft. Prior to assigning aircraft control to SIC, checked to confirm normal operation of right side flight instruments: noted SIC's EADI (Electronic Attitude Direction Indicator) indicated "Fatal Failure." Aircraft type does not provide for electronic switching to bootstrap gyro signal from opposite side to inop side. Elected to retain aircraft control and PF duties until descended into continuous VMC. SIC performed PM duties and provided visual guidance to avoid cumulonimbus clouds (CBS). Slowed AC to 250 kts at 10,000 ft. At approximately 6,500 ft MSL, observed airspeed indication had increased to 280 kts. Corrected and continued flying by instrument reference until descending to approximately 2,500 ft (1,000 ft above pattern altitude), and continuous VMC, in vicinity of [the airport]. Then asked SIC to take controls for landing. Synopsis Learjet crew reported encountering failures of the Windshield Heat, Autopilot, and Electronic Attitude Direction Indicator during flight. Crew continued to VMC conditions and landed uneventfully.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 0001-0600 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZDV.ARTCC State Reference : CO Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 12000 Environment Flight Conditions : Marginal Light : Dawn Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZDV Make Model Name : Skyhawk 172/Cutlass 172 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass E : ZDV Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1472727 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Aircraft Equipment Problem : Critical Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Excursion From Assigned Altitude Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Overcame Equipment Problem Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Weather Narrative: 1 [My aircraft] started to descend due to loss of power. I was level at 12,000 ft, at 2600 RPM, air temp was 12C and when a light drizzle of rain started, the temperature dropped
to 4C. I noticed a noise change in the engine, dropping down to 2200 RPM. This happened right after a light drizzle of rain started. The airspeed went from 93 knots indicated, and was dropping below 60 knots indicated. At 75 knots, I disconnected the autopilot to make sure the aircraft wouldn't stall, then reported to ATC that we were unable to maintain 12,000 ft, and needed vectors and a lower altitude immediately. The aircraft lost approximately 400 ft before the engine began to produce max power and was able to maintain altitude. I noticed the power came back after I was clear of the light drizzle rain. I would suspect induction ice was the cause of this event. Synopsis C172 pilot reported a power loss that led to an altitude deviation that was probably related to carburetor icing.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZMA.ARTCC State Reference : FL Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 35000 Environment Light : Dusk Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZMA Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : MD-80 Series (DC-9-80) Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Vectors Airspace.CIass A : ZMA Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.Center : ZMA Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B737 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Vectors Airspace.CIass A : ZMA Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Facility : ZMA.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Instructor Function.Air Traffic Control : Enroute Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control.Time Certified In Pos 1 (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1472521 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness
Human Factors : Distraction Communication Breakdown. Partyl . • ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly.Deviation - Track / Heading : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Returned To Clearance Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Weather Narrative: 1 Aircraft X was deviating left from ORL and over INPIN area at FL350. INPIN is a common arrival fix that aircraft are descending to FL270. Aircraft Y was southbound at FL350 and the data block showed FL 270. He was in the hand off flash to us. We called 386 ZEPHYR and pointed out Aircraft X deviating left to VQQ. They did not reference traffic. As we saw, Aircraft Y was on an intercepting heading to Aircraft X, my trainee instructed Aircraft X to fly heading 360 for traffic. Aircraft X responded that he was unable and that it would put him in weather. Trainee reissued the clearance and said "Unable weather deviation, fly heading 360 for traffic." The pilot again responded that he was unable. I keyed up and told Aircraft X, "Understand you are [exercising your emergency authority], if not, fly heading 360." He responded that he was not, and that he was in the turn. I called traffic at 11:00 and 5 miles southbound, same altitude. Aircraft X never had the traffic in site. After clearing traffic, we re-cleared him to deviate and issued the frequency change to ZJX. I would like to start issuing briefs to other pilots about the necessity to follow a controller's instruction. Whether or not they want to argue it is fine, but they should be complying by the instruction first - and then they can question it. The current attitude of, "I'm not going to do that so issue me something else" is extremely hazardous and will eventually result in a LoSS (Loss of Standard Separation) or worse. This issue of assigning aircraft routes through weather goes back to my other reports, we continually assign routes that go through weather and expect pilots to deviate when they get close to the weather. This is also hazardous; we should not be assigning any routes close to the weather, to alleviate this from even being a problem. By assigning these routes, we open ourselves up to the problems such as above. Synopsis Miami Center Controller reported an aircraft that was in conflict with another and the pilot did not want to turn away from traffic because of weather.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZMA.ARTCC State Reference : FL Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 35000 Environment Flight Conditions : Marginal Weather Elements / Visibility : Rain Weather Elements / Visibility : Thunderstorm Weather Elements / Visibility : Cloudy Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZMA Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Large Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.CIass A : ZMA Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory Center : ZMA Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Medium Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Climb Airspace.CIass A : ZMA Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.FaciIity : ZMA.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Instructor Function.Air Traffic Control : Enroute Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos 1 (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1472510 Human Factors : Fatigue : 1.5
: Training / Qualification Human Factors Human Factors : Workload : Situational Awareness Human Factors Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Facility : ZMA.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Enroute Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Developmental ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1472505 Human Factors : Training / Qualification Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly.Deviation - Track / Heading : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector.Automation : Air Traffic Control Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Air Traffic Control : Separated Traffic Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Company Policy Narrative: 1 I was the Instructor at the time of this incident. We had a Handoff/Assist positon. Aircraft X was level at 35000 feet deviating slightly left of course for weather. Aircraft Y was slow climbing out of 33000 feet to 37000 feet. Aircraft X was indicating approximately 460 knots groundspeed with Aircraft Y indicating 375-380 knots. Aircraft Y was approximately 6 miles diagonally behind the Aircraft X. Vector lines also concurred with this, showing that they would be 6 miles apart in 1 or 2 minutes. I assessed this situation and agreed with what the vector lines and ground speeds were showing. Consistent to my training, Aircraft Y should pass directly behind at 6 miles from Aircraft X. As Conflict Alert activated, my trainee was working on another issue south of this situation which my trainee resolved. He looked at this situation. I told him to turn the Aircraft Y 20 degrees right of course to run behind Aircraft X. As Aircraft Y was climbing through 34100 feet the trainee asked me if he should descend him back down to 34000 feet. I told him "no", as this instruction would induce confusion with the pilot and would not solve the conflict possibly causing him to speed up more by the time it's finally understood. Aircraft Y passed behind Aircraft X at 4.93 miles, resulting in a loss between the two aircraft. I take responsibility for my
actions, and admit that I misread the situation. During this entire event, the sector had a full En route Decision Support Tool (EDST) and the sector's Monitor Alert Parameter (MAP) number was at the original number of 18. The actual value was borderline to this number, at 17-18 the whole time. Future 15 minute increments were showing red. This MAP value does not change when there's weather, which I believe is a safety issue as it lulls people into a false sense of security. Based on that logic, we can work the same amount of planes with 100% weather as if we had O weather. There was a significant line of weather developing causing numerous deviations and frequency congestion. The volume Of traffic for this sector was significant even without the weather in the north side of the sector. Routes were closed to our northeast, and then reopened, which resulted in a significant increase of over flights to our sector. The Q routes were closed, which resulted in aircraft going over a fix that would have normally exited our sector significantly faster. Throughout this whole event, no Traffic Management Issues (TMI) were applied to our sector to reduce the traffic volume, and help alleviate our congestion. The Supervisor recognized how complex that it was, and said "If you need help, your tracker is right behind you, just grab him." He was looking out for the situation, whereas Traffic Management Unit (TMU) failed to help our sector from becoming too complex. Compounding the situation, both the trainee and I were 'assigned to duties' since XAOO. This occurred 2 hours and 17 minutes without being offered a break away from the operational area.. We both were plugged in for approximately 30 minutes, took a 30 minute break, and went to our mandated team training. From XAOO-XBOO, we were in our mandated briefing and training, and then told to report to the floor. We were plugged in at this sector from XBOO to XC55, a 1 hour and 55 minute plugin, but being assigned to duties for more than 2 hours and 55 minutes without a mental break or rest. Supervisors in the area do not believe that "being assigned to training" is the same as being plugged in at a sector, but both are mentally taxing. I believe that I was not as responsive as I would have been within the first hour, even two hours, of working this sector. I believe that this length of plug in negatively affected the trainee's decision making as well. Throughout the whole summer, we are forced to push aircraft through small gaps in extreme precipitation and convective activity. Unfortunately, this is an example of that. Because of this, workload greatly increases exponentially in the sector as aircraft are deviating that normally we can run parallel, and they're dangerously close to convective weather activity. There continue to be no plans to fix this, or change this, we just continue to run aircraft through the weather until something terrible happens. I would require that the MAP value changes to reflect the current conditions in the sector, as required by the Order. We currently do not do this. As such, when the sector is borderline RED or Yellow TMU should have to advise the supervisor what actions they have taken in order to resolve it. If the sector is already inundated with weather, the more significant the plans should be in order to alleviate it. For example, once some of the routes opened back up in this case, they could have offered the routes to about 10 aircraft, which would have significantly reduced the workload in this sector at the time of the incident. Additionally, when there is weather, especially developing lines of severe weather, as this was, plans should be drawn up on how they will change the departures as the weather progresses. This should be done at T MIJ and at the management level, so that the sector team, who is already extremely inundated with problems, does not have to worry about this. All they have to do is turn around and tell a Supervisor, "Hey this isn't working,
what's the next plan?" Currently, this happens, and then it's up to the sector team to devise a new plan. If the opposite was true, then the following aircraft could already be executing the next few plans, without sector overload. We routinely get away from the idea of keeping aircraft away from severe weather, instead, we run aircraft as close as 3 or 4 miles away from heavy precipitation as seen in the situation above with BOTH Aircraft Y and Aircraft X. When weather is developing, we need to move our traffic away from the precipitation to the recommended 20 miles. Aircraft should not be allowed to depart on routes that take them less than that separation (20 miles) to the weather. If they deviate that direction, that is their choice, but we are setting ourselves up for failure by letting them depart on routes that are filed through areas of extreme precipitation and convective activity. I would also suggest significantly briefing supervisors on fatigue requirements, and the mental impairment caused when controllers are on position/assigned duties for more than 2 hours. The cognitive process breaks down, and results in judgment errors that normally wouldn't happen when the controller is fully rested. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contains no additional information.] Synopsis Air Traffic Controller and trainee reported a loss of separation between aircraft deviating for weather.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ALM.Airport State Reference : NM Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 17000 Environment Flight Conditions : IMC Weather Elements / Visibility : Rain Weather Elements / Visibility : Hail Weather Elements / Visibility : Thunderstorm Weather Elements / Visibility : Turbulence Weather Elements / Visibility : Windshear Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZAB Aircraft Operator : Corporate Make Model Name : Challenger 350 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Climb Route In Use.SID : CRONA2 Airspace.CIass E : ZAB Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Corporate Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 8000 Experience. Flight Crew. Last 90 Days : 90 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 2500 ASRS Report Number.Accesslon Number : 1472483 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC
Events Anomaly Airspace Violation : All Types Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Track / Heading : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Flight Crew Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.Flight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Weather Narrative: 1 We departed ALM on the CRONA2.CNX departure. After being cleared to 17000, it became apparent that thunderstorms had moved over the departure route and that deviations would be necessary. We were told that deviations right of course were approved. Most of the weather was located to the right of us so we asked for deviations left and/or higher. We were informed that we were unable to deviate left due to military airspace and unable higher, due to military airspace. We entered a small area of what appeared on the radar to be moderate precipitation but was in fact an area of moderate to severe turbulence and precipitation. We repeatedly asked for higher, or deviations to the left due to weather. The Controller denied the requests, giving us only clearance to enter into weather that appeared more severe. We could see that the weather off to our left was clear. We were handed off to another Controller [who] upon asking, gave us a deviation to the left. We turned left to avoid a very large storm directly in front of us. Turning to the right would have put us into equally severe weather. Upon making the left turn, the Controller informed us to return to the previous frequency. On calling back to the previous frequency we were again told that there would be no left deviations and an "immediate 040 degree heading" was ordered from the Controller. This would have put us directly back in conflict with weather that could have damaged the aircraft or caused injury or death to the occupants. The Controller was argumentative and insisted that we turn immediately back towards the storm. At this time, I took the radio and informed the Controller that we were going to turn to a heading and if I needed to declare an emergency, that I would. We asked for a number to call to have a discussion with a ZAB supervisor. Synopsis CL350 Captain reported using his Captain's authority to avoid thunderstorms during climb.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZZZ.TRACON State Reference : US Environment Flight Conditions : IMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Regional Jet 200 ER/LR (CRJ200) Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Approach Airspace.CIass B : ZZZ Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Function.FIight Crew : Captain Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1471766 Human Factors : Time Pressure Human Factors : Workload Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1471767 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Time Pressure Human Factors : Workload
Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Track / Heading : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector.Automation : Aircraft Other Automation Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Became Reoriented Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 As we began to get vectors off the arrival due to weather, approach control assigned us a different runway than we had brief and expected. The new approach was the ILS PRM (Precision Runway Monitor) 27L into ZZZ. Seconds after the runway change we were assigned direct ZZZZZ and cleared for the approach. This gave us no time to brief the new approach and due to that we forgot to put in the monitor frequency. We continued on the approach. During the approach the first officer had trouble switching from white needles to green needles. This caused us to deviate from the localizer. The captain realized the mistake shortly after and made the first officer correct before we were 1 dot off the localizer so we continue the approach and landed safely The cause of this was lack of briefing a possible PRM approach. We had brief both runways but we were not aware that PRM's were in use due to the fact they were not advertised on the ATIS. The slight deviation on the localizer was due to task saturation on the first officer's part. [ATC] should start advertising PRM approaches when they are actually using them. As pilots we should recognize the threat that ZZZ sometimes is using PRM approaches even though they are not advertised. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis A Bombardier flight crew reported not being aware of the Precision Runway Monitor in use because it was not advertised on AT IS.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZDC.ARTCC State Reference : VA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 20000 Environment Flight Conditions : IMC Weather Elements / Visibility Weather Elements / Visibility Weather Elements / Visibility Weather Elements / Visibility Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZDC : Windshear : Turbulence : Icing : Thunderstorm Make Model Name : Learjet 60 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Ferry Flight Phase : Descent Route In Use.STAR : GIBZ2 Airspace.CIass A : ZDC Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Corporate Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Qualification Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Multiengine Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 3300 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 100 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 410 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1471540 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Loss Of Aircraft Control Detector. Person : Flight Crew
When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Regained Aircraft Control Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Weather Narrative: 1 I was Pilot in Command (PIC) and Pilot Monitoring (PM). First Officer (FO) was Pilot Flying (PF). Forecast called for a possibility of scattered afternoon thunderstorms. Descending on the arrival, ADS-B weather showed scattered small-but-developing thunderstorms. Turned on aircraft weather radar and it showed the same. PIC radar was tilted down and SIC radar was tilted up to get a full picture Of the weather. Both ADS-B and radar showed small cells left and right of our arrival route, but nothing directly along our route. No other aircraft had reported turbulence beyond light chop. Below us was an undercast. We turned on nacelle heat and stab/wing heat several minutes prior to entering the cloud layer. We were indicating approximately 300 knots, slowing to 280 knots as required by the arrival. Upon entering the cloud layer, the windscreen was instantly caked in ice and the aircraft was rolled approximately 40 degrees left and pitched nose down. The PF disconnected the Autopilot, established a level attitude, and brought power to idle. After 10-20 seconds the turbulence ended and the flight continued as normal. We made a PIREP of severe turbulence to ATC. After landing we inspected the aircraft and found no visible damage. No injuries occurred. Maintenance was notified. Further inspection revealed no structural damage to the aircraft. I suspect we flew through the top of a developing thunderstorm that was embedded in the undercast, and that had formed quickly enough that ADS-B had not yet shown the cell, and that was below our radar as we approached it, even though my radar was tilted down. This incident just reiterates the need to use extreme caution when flying in the vicinity Of convective activity, even if the cells appear "scattered," "small," and "weak. " Synopsis LR60 Captain reported momentary loss of control after encountering a developing thunderstorm on descent.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : DIO.TRACON State Reference : TX Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 2500 Environment Flight Conditions : IMC Weather Elements / Visibility : Haze / Smoke Weather Elements / Visibility : Rain Weather Elements / Visibility.VisibiIity : 10 Light : Night Ceiling.Single Value : 2500 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZFW ATC / Advisory.TRACON : DIO Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Small Aircraft, Low Wing, I Eng, Fixed Gear Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Training Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : VFR Route Airspace.CIass E : ZFW Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1471524 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown. Partyl : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue Anomaly.Deviation Anomaly.Deviation : All Types - Procedural : Published Material / Policy - Procedural :
Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : VFR In IMC Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.FIight Crew : Exited Penetrated Airspace Result.Flight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Weather Narrative: 1 Company Policy Human Factors Staffing Weather During a round-robin IFR cross country training flight at night, I made the decision to cancel IFR while midway through our second leg. Center was advising us of moderate to extreme precipitation along our route of flight. Our aircraft was equipped with a storm scope and we were able to see the cumulus clouds ahead as the moonlight shone around it. There were no signs Of lightning visually or on the storm scope, so I made the decision to continue underneath the weather Center was depicting. Not wanting to get involved with even the mere possibility of embedded convective weather, and knowing from our first leg that the cloud bases were between 2,500 and 3,000 feet I elected to cancel IFR, descend below our Minimum Enroute Altitude (MEA) to 3,000 feet and continue receiving flight following from Center. We would not have been able to remain IFR at 3,000 feet due to the MEA and Center's Minimum IFR Altitude in this area. We would then descend to 2,500 feet to maintain VFR cloud clearance requirements. Center transferred us to Approach, and shortly thereafter, we had an inadvertent encounter with IMC at 2,500 feet. I informed the Approach controller that we would need to pick up IFR again, and he advised us to standby because he needed to call Center for permission to make that change, as we were still not inside the Approach airspace boundary. About 2 minutes later, we popped out of the cloud and were back in VFR conditions. I cancelled the request to pick up IFR. The controller acknowledged that, advising us that Center wouldn't pick up his landline call and therefore he would probably not have been able to issue the clearance for another several miles when we entered his boundary. This speaks to a larger issue about staffing at Center and TRACON. It seems [in the evening] both facilities staff with a lower-than-acceptable number of controllers. This makes it hard to receive otherwise simple services like changing a VFR aircraft to IFR status. We were already "in the NAS" from our previous IFR clearance, squawking our NAS flight plan code, and yet the Approach controller couldn't get Center to pick up a simple call to request permission to change us back to IFR. Insofar as I'm concerned, Approach and Center should be staffed just as well at night as both seem to be staffed during the day. In most cases I hear more traffic flying with these two facilities at night than I do during the day. I fly at all hours of the day and night and find the most hectic hours [in the latter half of the evening], when one controller will be combined on multiple sectors and frequencies.
I accept responsibility for the inadvertent IMC encounter. I elected to remain in IMC rather than descend out of the cloud thinking we would be able to switch back to an IFR clearance without a problem. The fact that it was night time contributed to my decision to remain at 2,500 feet rather than descend lower. Had we continued to be unable to receive a new IFR clearance, I would have descended out of the cloud and back into VFR conditions. We exited the cloud and were back in VFR conditions before that option crossed my mind. Synopsis A General Aviation pilot reported canceling IFR then entering IMC weather without obtaining a new IFR clearance in a timely manner. The reporter indicated that the delay was due to staffing issues from ATC.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZZZ.ARTCC State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.SingIe Value : 36000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : EMB ERJ 170/175 ER/LR Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Climb Route In Use : Direct Airspace.Class A : ZZZ Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1471374 Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Physiological - Other Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Air Traffic Control : Enroute Function.FIight Crew : Check Pilot Function.Flight Crew : Captain ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1471375 Human Factors : Physiological - Other Human Factors : Human-Machine Interface Human Factors : Troubleshooting Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence
Detector.Automation : Aircraft Other Automation Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Diverted Result.FIight Crew : Landed As Precaution Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 Upon climbing through FL360 to FL380 we received an Engine-Indicating and Crew- Alerting System (EICAS) warning "DOOR Passenger AFT OPEN". We [reset] warning and called the Flight Attendant (FA) to determine status of door. They stated that it was closed and secure yet the top right green indicator had some white area in it that was not normal. We checked the Quick Reference Handbook (QRH) for required actions. We continued to climb to assigned FL380. After leveling off at FL380 we were encountering light to moderate chop turbulence. The warning message came one again. We called again to confirm with the same answer. We requested lower as the door was still indicating unsafe. As we descended we noticed that the differential pressure was 8.3. We referenced the QRH for proper differential pressure for that altitude and determined that the aircraft was indicating a high differential pressure for the altitude we were flying. At this time you could feel the pressure on our ears and the Captain asked me if I could feel this as well. I confirmed the discomfort. The warning was still on and had unreliable pressure readings combined with physical discomfort from the pressure. The Captain stated "I think we need to get lower and divert". This also was confirmed by the QRH if we lost cabin pressure. I confirmed the need to divert. We descended to 14,000 ft. We continued to have pressure fluctuations during the descent. Aircraft was inspected by contract maintenance and deferred. Captain suggested we fly back at 10,000 ft to avoid issues if the pressurization failed. We did so attempting to manage pressure manually and automatically [to ZZZI]. The aircraft continued to have increase and decreased differential pressure for the flight [to ZZZI]. Unknown cause for event. The warnings and pressure issues may have been caused by the door open indications. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis E-175 flight crew performed an precautionary landing after troubleshooting pressurization door issue.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : DEN Airport State Reference : CO Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 7000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : DOI Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8737 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Nav In Use : GPS Flight Phase : Final Approach Route In Use : Visual Approach Route In Use.STAR : ZPLYN3 Airspace.Class B : DEN Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Function.Flight Crew : Captain Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 3581 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1471341 Human Factors : Distraction Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.FIight Crew : First Officer Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP)
Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 2459 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1471638 Human Factors : Confusion Events Anomaly.Deviation - Track / Heading : All Types Anomaly Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Returned To Clearance Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Approaching Denver we had loaded and briefed the ZPLYN 3 arrival and planned on the 16L ILS as our best guess of what approach we would receive. ATIS was advertising 16L, 17R and 17L. We also briefed the Class B airspace and altitudes using the fix page to ensure we remained above the floor of the class B if we received a visual approach clearance. After checking in with approach control, we were told to expect the visual to 17L. At about the same time we encountered moderate turbulence in the descent and I made the PA for the flight attendants to take their jumpseats. While we both started to set up the necessary changes to the localizer frequency and minimums for 17L, approach control instructed us to maintain 280 kts whereupon the FO, who was the pilot flying, began making the changes to multiple legs of the arrival to maintain our speed while descending in VNAV. While he was making the changes I was asked for and gave a PIREP on the weather and ride during the descent. I believe it was these distractions that led us to forget to change the runway in the FMC. We did a quick mini-brief on the runway change but did not catch the fact we still had the ILS 16L loaded in the FMC. Within minutes we were descended to 7000, given a turn off the arrival and asked if we had the airport in sight. We both agreed and we're given a heading of 200 to join the final for 17L. Things were happening quickly. The FO slowed the aircraft, descended and began calling for flaps and the approach checklist which I completed. I also, distracted myself and the FO a bit by talking about the floor of the class B and being careful not to descend below it. I noticed that just as we were about to cross the final of 17 L and asked the FO to arm the approach mode. By the time he did so, we had crossed the final approach course of 17L and the aircraft flew through the localizer. The FO seemed unsure what was happening so I took the aircraft, disengaged the autopilot and turned the aircraft back toward 17L. The turn was made between the final approach courses of 17L and 17R. At about the same time, ATC queried us about the overshoot and I explained we were maneuvering back towards the 17L final. At no time was there a conflict with other traffic. It was then that the FO verbalized he had been looking at 17R (believing that he was seeing 17L) and he'd been further convinced he was not on final yet because the final approach course line on the MFD was actually showing 16L - much farther to the west than the 17 L final. This resulted in his delay in arming the MCP approach mode. Once established back on the 17L final, the FO resumed flying the aircraft and configured for landing within required visual approach criteria. We confirmed the runway again with the localizer, glideslope and our eyeballs using the taxi chart and a normal landing was made.
Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis B737 flight crew reported on approach to DEN they had the wrong runway programmed in the FMS which caused a deviation on the visual approach.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZLA.ARTCC State Reference : CA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 11000 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility : Thunderstorm Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : 10 Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 20000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZLA Aircraft Operator : Corporate Make Model Name : Small Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Flight Phase : Descent Route In Use : Vectors Airspace.CIass E : ZLA Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Corporate Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.Flight Crew : Commercial Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 1350 Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 60 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 60 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1471135 Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events
Anomaly Airspace Violation : All Types Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Track / Heading : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result. General : Flight Cancelled / Delayed Result.Flight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Weather Narrative: 1 Airspace Structure Human Factors Procedure Weather Another pilot and I on board experienced an incident with L.A. Center while approaching the San Diego International Airport. The incident occurred when L.A. Center assigned our aircraft to fly direct to the IFR fix, JONDA then direct to the San Diego International Airport (SAN), which was our final destination. JONDA (IFR Fix) is located 55 nautical miles southeast of the San Diego International Airport just north of the Mexican/USA border. Our aircraft was flying on a heading direct to JONDA (IFR fix) from the north. L.A. Center then told our aircraft to maintain present heading once we were approximately 10 nautical miles north of JONDA (IFR Fix). Our aircraft along with multiple other aircraft approaching the San Diego International Airport were trying to maneuver around a large wall of thunderstorms that were located to the east of the San Diego County area. L.A. Center had most of the aircraft approaching the San Diego International Airport fly south close to the border of Mexico to deviate around the thunderstorm cells, then head inbound to the San Diego International Airport. While our aircraft was quickly approaching JONDA, maintaining our southerly heading to the Mexican border, our L.A. Center frequency became highly saturated with radio calls. Our L.A. Center controller kept getting stepped on while making transmissions to other aircraft. Also, two to three aircraft were calling at one time to get a hold of our L.A. Center Controller. Our controller even stated that two aircraft are calling at once and to say again because he did not receive the transmissions clearly from those two other aircraft. Our aircraft was still maintaining our present southerly heading that L.A. Center told us to fly, but we were quickly approaching the ADIZ borderline between Mexico and the United States. My other pilot and I tried reaching our L.A. Center Controller multiple times, but our transmissions kept getting blocked by other aircraft and the L.A. Center Controller together. We tried approximately 20 attempts to get a hold of our L.A. Center Controller, but were not able to. We started calling our controller once we were about 5 nautical miles to the North of JONDA (IFR fix) because we knew we were getting close to the ADIZ. The other pilot and I thought that the controller became too saturated with radio calls and forgot about our aircraft and our current position of our aircraft, which was very close to the ADIZ. Once we passed JONDA (IFR fix) on our assigned southerly heading, we were now 5 nautical miles from the North of the ADIZ and were soon going to pass the ADIZ without any sort of clearance or permission to cross the border of Mexico since our aircraft's final
destination was San Diego International Airport, a United States domestic destination. Myself and other pilot kept trying and trying multiple times now, once we were quickly approaching the ADIZ, but the L.A. Center frequency was still very saturated with communication amongst the Controller and several other aircraft. Approximately 2-3 nautical miles north of the Mexico/United States ADIZ, myself and other pilot both decided to deviate and make a turn to the right on a westerly heading to avoid crossing the ADIZ from the north in VFR flight conditions. Once rolling out on the westerly heading we tried calling L.A. Center two-three more attempts and after the third attempt we were able to get a hold of the controller. We told the controller that we had to make a right turn to the west to avoid crossing the ADIZ into Mexico and tried multiple times calling on the frequency, but it was too saturated with transmissions between other aircraft and the controller. The L.A. Center controller then acknowledged to us that he was capable of having aircraft cross the ADIZ due to the thunderstorms in the area, but myself and other pilot had no knowledge of that information and were never communicated that information until after we made the turn to the westerly heading to avoid the penetration of crossing the ADIZ. L.A. Center then told us to fly on a heading of 255 degrees and expect radar vectors to San Diego International from that point. Our aircraft then was assigned a different Air Traffic Control frequency and made it safely to our destination of the San Diego International Airport. Synopsis A corporate pilot reported turning away from the Mexico ADIZ airspace after being unable to contact the Center due to frequency congestion.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : TPA.Airport State Reference : FL Relative Position.Angle.Radial : 300 Relative Position. Distance. Nautical Miles : 24 Altitude.MSL.SingIe Value : 6400 Environment Flight Conditions : Marginal Weather Elements / Visibility : Thunderstorm Weather Elements / Visibility : Rain Weather Elements / Visibility : Turbulence Weather Elements / Visibility : Windshear Weather Elements / Visibility.VisibiIity : 3 Light : Daylight Ceiling.Single Value : 4000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : TPA Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : M-20 F Executive 21 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 1 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : None Mission : Training Flight Phase : Descent Route In Use : Direct Airspace.CIass B : TPA Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.Flight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification.Flight Crew : Private Qualification.FIight Crew : Multiengine Qualification.Flight Crew : Instrument Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 2800 Experience.FIight Crew. Last 90 Days : O Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 2000 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number . • 1471074
: Situational Awareness Human Factors Training / Qualification Human Factors : Events Anomaly.Airspace Violation : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Became Reoriented Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Weather Narrative: 1 I had not flown for several months and was getting practice in. As I tried to get to BKV I found myself hemmed in by building cumulonimbus, rain, and thunderstorm activity. I was unable to make BKV and updrafts and cloud tops pushed me above the class B veil beyond 6,000 ft to 6,400 about. I had relied on my Garmin weather in cockpit, but it was not depicting actual conditions. I will not rely on this instrument again. Synopsis M20 pilot reported encountering an updraft which caused him to climb into TPA Class B airspace.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility State Reference : OH Environment Weather Elements / Visibility Weather Elements / Visibility Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZOB Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier : ZOB.ARTCC : Thunderstorm : Windshear Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Approach Airspace.CIass A : ZOB Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1470687 Human Factors : Time Pressure Events Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue Detector. Person : Flight Crew Were Passengers Involved In Event . •N When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Diverted Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Weather
Narrative: 1 Original flight scheduled to ROC, diverted to ZZZ due to TRs at ROC. At the folder noticed fuel was about 10.3 at ROC no alternate with lots of weather in route. I added 3k. After takeoff ATC leveled us at 310 initially. They said this would be a final. Sent [Operations] a msg. After a bit they gave us 330 as a final. Enroute we have to deviate for WX quite a bit. On arrival several thunderstorms in the area. We flew over ZZZ and it looked fine. Noticed the radar displayed strong storms east and southeast and south of ROC and closing in on the airport. We were getting vectors for the approach and handed off to tower. We were on a right dogleg and Tower reported winds gusting to 30 and the last jet that attempted to land was an Airbus 319 that reported +\- 15 and a 600 ft loss on final. I could see the strong rain down shafts and lightning almost at the field and discontinued the approach. At this point we had about Ilk on gas. I knew ZZZ was clear and I decided to go. ZZZ is a very short flight from ROC. The FO (First Officer) was flying and I was getting our clearance to ZZZ as well as diverting the box, loading the app, getting AT IS, working the radar, and doing landing data. We landed and I called [Operations] then because I just flat didn't have time to tell them in flight, very time compressed. We blocked in with 8.9 fob (Fuel on Board). 1900 lbs above emergency fuel, glad I added 3k. Synopsis Air Carrier Captain reported diverting due to thunderstorms at the destination airport and fuel concerns.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : MCO.Airport State Reference : FL Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 200 Environment Flight Conditions : Mixed Weather Elements / Visibility : Rain Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : MCO Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B737-800 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use.Localizer/GIidesIope/ILS : Runway 35R Flight Phase : Final Approach Airspace.CIass B : MCO Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1470661 Events Anomaly.Deviation - Track / Heading : All Types Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Unstabilized Approach Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : Executed Go Around / Missed Approach Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Weather
Narrative: 1 While conducting the ILS 35R approach into MCO, deteriorating weather conditions mandated a missed approach. The missed approach was executed without incident. There were storm cells around MCO but the field was VFR and normal operations/landings were being conducted to 35R (9001 ft). Wind was approximately 45 degrees off the nose 15 gusting to 25 (approximately). Left to right crosswind. As we joined the localizer the aircraft landing reported the first 1000 ft of runway was wet. We were cleared to land, #2. The aircraft immediately ahead of us landed and reported that the first 4000 ft of the runway was now wet, but no other issues. There was a storm cell approaching the field. Approaching the final approach fix we could still see the runway (approximately 6 DME). Fully configured, checklist complete, stable at 1000 AGL, stable at 500. Visibility rapidly started to deteriorate after the 500 ft stable call. Heavy rain. No longer VFR, but all approach lights and runway lights were visible. At approximately 200 ft a very strong and sudden gust of wind left to right pushed us well right of centerline. The Captain (pilot flying) called for and initiated a go-around. Aircrew initiated the go-around without incident. Multiple aircraft on the localizer behind us immediately broke off their approaches as well. I believe the gust of wind that drove us off centerline was microburst type event. It had no headwind component to it, only crosswind, and it was very sudden. To avoid a recurrence, the only suggestion would to be to recognize the threat of weather earlier and discontinue (or never start) the approach sooner. Synopsis 8737 Captain reported executing a go-around at MCO after encountering a "microburst type event" on short final.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : 700 Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility : Thunderstorm Weather Elements / Visibility : Windshear Weather Elements / Visibility : Rain Aircraft Reference : X ATC/ Advisory.Tower : ZZZ ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8747 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 3 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Final Approach Route In Use : Vectors Airspace.Class B : ZZZ Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 8226 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 1110 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1470577 Human Factors : Time Pressure Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck
Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Relief Pilot Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 9206 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 6686 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1470564 Person : 3 Reference : 3 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (AT P) Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 15504 Experience.Flight Crew. Type : 13801 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1470561 Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Unstabilized Approach Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Weather Narrative: 1 We were on the approach to ZZZ, about 18 mile final and were watching a large storm cell over the airport. As we got closer ATC issued a micro burst alert for 50 knot wind gains and losses on final. We elected to abandon the approach and since the cell appeared to be moving quickly across the field, we elected to have delay vectors to evaluate the rapidly changing weather. We had about 1+20 minutes of fuel remaining. We were sent on a heading to ZZZZZ and switched to ZZZI approach. The controller there had clearly lost the picture of his traffic situation and did not answer our initial transmissions. We continued to have difficulty establishing communication with approach. The IRO (International Relief Officer) was communicating with dispatch to change our alternate to something closer to our current position than ZZZ2, but were told that none of the local area airports were suitable. We evaluated our fuel state and determined that we needed to divert to ZZZ2 without delay to arrive with sufficient fuel. Again, the controller seemed to not hear our transmissions and at one point made a blind broadcast to us by our transponder code. We finally got a heading to ZZZ2 after declaring minimum fuel. In addition, we had to deviate around scattered cells as we headed to ZZZ2. We were switched to ZZZ approach as we had to go by ZZZ on our way to ZZZ. The controller
informed us that Runway XYR was available for landing if we wanted it. We evaluated the situation and saw a large gap between cells that would allow a visual approach. We were vectored till we saw the airport and were cleared for a visual approach to XYR. I noticed the First Officer appeared to have the wrong runway in sight and was slightly high on the approach. He reported XYR in sight and I was providing verbal corrections to position us for the visual approach. We had to maneuver around a rain shower between us and the runway and I noticed we were trending to low when we got a below glide slope alert. We immediately corrected back to course and because of our position on an angling left base, we needed to make a turn to line up with the runway at 700 feet. My normal reaction is not to try to salvage a bad approach, but to go around and do it again. I felt that considering our fuel state, about 40 min remaining, and the rapidly changing weather we needed to land rather than go around, and that we could do it safely. The approach resembled the IGS [Instrument Guidance System] into the old Hong Kong airport. We were lined up and on speed at 400 feet and the wind at the airport remained less than 5 knots. We landed exactly in the touchdown zone and taxied to the gate without further incident. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Narrative: 3 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis 3747 flight crew reported beginning to divert due to weather and minimum fuel but ended up going to the original destination.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZMP.ARTCC State Reference : MN Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 6000 Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZMP Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Medium Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Climb Route In Use : Vectors Airspace.CIass E : ZMP Aircraft : 2 ATC / Advisory.Center : ZMP Aircraft Operator : Military Make Model Name : Military Flight Plan : IFR Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Vectors Airspace.CIass E : ZMP Person Reference : I Location Of Person.FaciIity : ZMP.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Approach Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control.Time Certified In Pos 1 (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1470484 Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Confusion Events Anomaly Airspace Violation : All Types Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight : 8.0
Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Result.Air Traffic Control : Separated Traffic Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airspace Structure Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 APN complex hot with large force exercise. Multiple airspaces, including a temporary Military Operations Center (MOA), with bases as low as 5,000. Building weather with deviations. First, Aircraft Y was direct to APN level at 5,000. I had moved Aircraft Y from nonradar conditions at 4,000 to 5,000 for an unusual departure from GOV Tower, which I had wrongly thought (as it turns out) was departing Runway 14 (he actually departed 32). Aircraft Y then progressed into the temporary MOA (5,000 to 27,000) when APN Approach called (upon taking their handoff), and asked whether I was going to move him down to 4,000 to avoid the airspace. I then descended Aircraft Y to 4,000. He barely entered the lateral confines at approximately 4,500. Sometime around the same time, APN Approach handed me Aircraft X, opposite direction, at 5,000. I knew the airspace (Garland MOA) was active at 6,000, but simply forgot. I may have seen the "6,000 to 23,000" associated with the MOA on the screen and used 6,000 instead of 500 to 1,000 feet below. Upon exiting APN airspace, I climbed the aircraft to 6,000, partly to avoid any potential conflict with Aircraft Y going the opposite direction. Not that they were in conflict at the time, but I was busy and expected deviations from both. Aircraft X was in the airspace for at least 20 to 30 miles. I realized my mistake after the phone call about Aircraft Y from APN Approach. By this time, Aircraft X was nearly clear, and elected to keep him there for another 5 miles until I could climb the aircraft on course. I was busy, and just lost the flick. There is no other excuse, it was probably my worse session in quite some time, other than my mistake that happened here. A D-side was provided a short while after. I should have asked for a D-side. This would have helped immensely. Synopsis A Center Controller reported allowing an aircraft to enter Military Operations Areas without coordination while working special military operations and dealing with weather deviations.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZBW.ARTCC State Reference : NH Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 28000 Environment Weather Elements / Visibility : Turbulence Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZBW Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Descent Route In Use : Direct Airspace.Class A : ZBW Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Facility : ZBW.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Enroute Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1470479 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Distraction Communication Breakdown.Party1 : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person : Company Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Dispatch : Dispatcher Qualification.Dispatch : Dispatcher ASRS Report Number.Accession Number . • 1472867 Person : 3 : 7.5
Reference : 3 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Dispatch : Dispatcher Qualification.Dispatch : Dispatcher ASRS Report Number.Accession Number Person : 4 Reference : 4 Location Of Person.FaciIity : ZBW.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Enroute : 1472868 Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control.Time Certified In Pos 1 (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1470479 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.PartyI : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Flight Deck / Cabin / Aircraft Event : Illness Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : Physical Injury / Incapacitation Result.FIight Crew : Landed in Emergency Condition Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Weather Narrative: 1 Aircraft X was on route direct to MANTA intersection and then an arrival into PHL descending to FL280. I had plugged into Sector 31 as the radar controller a couple of minutes prior to the aircraft checking on, and was informed by the previous controller that there were some weather deviations, but surprisingly no bad rides. I Issued the weather to Aircraft X and received no response. No more than two minutes later I issued a descent clearance to Aircraft X to cross 35 miles north of MANTA at FL200, no response and I issued it one more time. The pilot read back the clearance and then reported moderate turbulence descending from FL300-280 five miles behind. I thanked him for the report. At this point I was relieved from position to take over as CIC (Controller In Charge) in the area. A couple of minutes later, the new Sector 31 Controller advised me that Aircraft X encountered moderate to severe turbulence and that there were injuries on board the aircraft. The aircraft was switched to ZNY for more expedient routing. Narrative: 2
Aircraft X was flight planned through a FPG (Flight Planning Guidance) that had light- moderate-occasional Turbulence from FL280-FL340. Flight was planned to descend to FL280 at LFV. There was an FPG in the area, if I remember it started just prior to LFV. I had no reports of bad or good rides reported by other Flights in the area. There were no SIGMETs or PIREPs in the area, from other flights traversing the area in question. Narrative: 3 The flight encountered severe turbulence resulting in injuries. Captain reported the incident via radio and requested paramedics and ambulances meet the flight upon arrival. The flight submitted a PIREP to ATC. HTO UIJA /OV HT0090025/TM XA44/FL280/TP [Commercial Fixed Wing] /TB MOD-SEV/RM 2 SEV BUMPS ASSOC W/ AREA OF WX, INJ PASS AND CREW CORR FOR TYPE I-JUA The flight crew then requested FA supervisors meet the flight via ACARS. VIA ops, I requested paramedics and ambulances meet the flight upon arrival due to possible 10 passengers and 7 flight attendants injured. The crew reported that the seatbelt sign had been on for 40 minutes before the turbulence was encountered. Narrative: 4 I was made aware today, that on the last session of my shift yesterday, Aircraft X encountered moderate to severe turbulence as it was leaving my sector, while already talking to the following controller. There were numerous thunderstorms in the area and I had been calling the weather to other aircraft in my sector. I cannot recall if the precipitation that Aircraft X encountered was in my sector or not, and I have not seen the radar playback to know if it did indeed fly directly through heavy/extreme precipitation. I was told that I did not call the weather to this aircraft and for that, I am reporting myself. I would like to see this become a training item for controllers to again remind about the serious need to call the weather. I believe many of us get complacent because we see aircraft all the time fly directly through what appears to us to be extreme precipitation. This should help reinforce the need to call weather all the time. Synopsis Two Controllers and two Dispatchers reported a flight encountered severe turbulence which resulted in injuries to flight attendants and passengers.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZNY.ARTCC State Reference : NY Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 41000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory Center : ZNY Aircraft Operator : Fractional Make Model Name : Medium Large Transport Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : IFR Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Cruise Airspace.Class A : ZNY Person Reference : I Location Of Person.FaciIity : ZNY.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Handoff / Assist Function.Air Traffic Control : Enroute Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1470471 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Human-Machine Interface Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly.Deviation - Track / Heading : All Types Anomaly Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : FLC Overrode Automation Assessments : 13 Contributing Factors / Situations : ATC Equipment / Nav Facility / Buildings Contributing Factors / Situations : Equipment / Tooling Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Primary Problem : ATC Equipment / Nav Facility / Buildings
Narrative: 1 I was working the handoff position at the sector. There was a lot of weather deviations and route closures. Aircraft X had a flight plan which took them backwards. The pilot did not question the route and I did not catch the fact that the routing took them backwards. Aircraft X was coordinated with the adjacent sector who also did not catch that the routing would take this flight backwards. ATOP probed the flight as if he was going reverse course at a fix. The flight did not reverse course and came together with another flight at 41000 feet. ATOP should have a logic check when a flight reverses course like this. Also the pilot didn't fly flight plan. Synopsis ZNY Center Controller reported the flight plan processing software did not detect that an aircraft filed a route which reversed course at a fix and into conflict with another aircraft at the same altitude.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : FII.TRACON State Reference : FL Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 5000 Environment Flight Conditions : Mixed Weather Elements / Visibility : Thunderstorm Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : Fil Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Widebody, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 129 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use : Vectors Airspace.CIass B : MCO Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.FaciIity : FII.TRACON Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Approach Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1470460 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly Airspace Violation : All Types Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Airborne Conflict : 2.5 Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control
When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : None Reported / Taken Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Weather Narrative: 1 Airspace Structure Human Factors Procedure Staffing Weather Aircraft Y was being worked by the STN controller on a 160 heading and clipped the corner of my airspace on final (ARM sector), right where Aircraft X was descending out of 6,000 for 4,000. Aircraft Y entered my airspace without a point-out. The STN controller was busy and had several areas of thunderstorms affecting his airspace. Aircraft Y passed less than 5 miles behind Aircraft X, a heavy with 700 feet of altitude. There was several significant areas of precipitation affecting the entire airspace and every sector was overwhelmed including the supervisors. There was not enough staffing to staff hand-off positions and coordinator positions. Supervisors were having to work Coordinator positions for the MCO departure sectors and arrivals sectors and were not able to keep an eye on other sectors than may need attention. I recommend adequate staffing levels to staff coordinator and hand-off positions so that supervisors are not having to stand behind just I sector to coordinate for an extended period of time and they can keep an eye on the entire operation. It is a known issue that FII experiences significant thunderstorms every afternoon during the summer months and staffing was decreased instead of increased to allow for necessary positions to be staffed. Synopsis Orlando TRACON Controller reported an airspace incursion and a loss of separation due to another Controller being overwhelmed with traffic and weather.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Personal : Turbulence Make Model Name : PA-32 Cherokee Six/Lance/Saratoga/6X Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Landing Route In Use : Visual Approach Airspace.Class D : ZZZ Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function.FIight Crew : Single Pilot Qualification Flight Crew : Private Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 173 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 16 Experience.FIight Crew. Type : 32 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1470394 Human Factors : Training / Qualification Events Anomaly.Ground Excursion : Runway Anomaly.Ground Event / Encounter : Loss Of Aircraft Control Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected. Other Result.Flight Crew : Regained Aircraft Control Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 It was a warm afternoon, windy out of the northwest (after landing I approximated the crosswind at 13 knots with winds around 350 at 20 knots). I was in a stable traffic pattern, turned onto final and had to crab the plane to line up with the runway due to the winds. I had a smooth landing on centerline at a higher than normal speed due to the gusting wind conditions, then the plane quickly veered off to the right, exiting the runway, and I was able to quickly stop it on the grass next to the runway. Tower inquired whether I needed a tow. The engine was running normally, there were no engine warning lights or unusual sounds so I requested and received permission to taxi back onto the runway and then exit off at the normal taxiway. I performed a thorough inspection of the aircraft afterwards and there was no damage to the aircraft or obvious wear changes to the tires. A mechanic examined the plane the next day and no obvious damage was noted. No damage to the airport environment was noted. The runway excursion was the result of a high crosswind and my delay in correcting for it. I was reminded of the importance and difficulty in maintaining crosswind correction during all phases of aircraft movement and was too slow to respond given the very windy conditions at the airport. I am unfamiliar with this airport and need more experience with this airport environment and its windy conditions. I plan on working with a local CFI to improve on these skills. Synopsis PA32 pilot reported loss of directional control in gusty crosswind conditions that resulted in a runway excursion.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : MUHG.Airport State Reference : FO Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X : Thunderstorm ATC / Advisory. Tower : MUHG Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : Large Transport, Low Wing, 2 Turbojet Eng Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Nav In Use : GPS Nav In Use.Localizer/Glideslope/ILS : Runway 5 Flight Phase : Initial Approach Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1469723 Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Became Reoriented Assessments
Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Airport Narrative: 1 Weather Human Factors Airport We stayed offshore to avoid thunderstorms on the arrival. About 20 miles out from the airport we proceeded to DME 8.5 on the approach course to avoid thunderstorms over BEMUV. We shot the LOC Runway 5 approach because the glideslope was not available due to the DTHR for Runway 5. We were not able to acquire the displaced runway threshold (DTHR) marking until 2.5 miles out on the approach. The runway marking isn't wide enough and has almost no contrast to the surrounding runway surface. The marking for the DTHR is about 200 ft northeast of Taxiway B. My local knowledge of where the DTHR was made the difference in continuing the approach. We departed at dusk with the runway lights on and the DTHR was clearly marked. The lack of approach lighting and an almost invisible DTHR would result in a missed approach in IFR weather conditions. Synopsis Air carrier pilot reported difficulty identifying the MUHG Runway 5 displaced threshold because of the prevailing visibility, the runway marking width, the low contrast from the surrounding runway surface, and no approach lights.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 33000 Environment Flight Conditions : IMC Weather Elements / Visibility : Rain Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 36000 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : 8737-700 Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Climb Airspace.CIass A : ZZZ Component Aircraft Component : Pitot-Static System Aircraft Reference : X Problem : Malfunctioning Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience.FIight Crew.Last 90 Days : 46 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1469614 Human Factors : Troubleshooting Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck
Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1469624 Human Factors : Troubleshooting Events Anomaly Aircraft Equipment Problem : Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Altitude : Excursion From Assigned Altitude Anomaly.Deviation - Speed : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.FIight Crew : FLC Overrode Automation Result.FIight Crew : Overcame Equipment Problem Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Aircraft Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Aircraft Narrative: 1 As Pilot Flying, we were navigating around moderate to heavy precipitation using heading select and climbing to FL 330 using VNAV. During the climb, I realized I had bad air data, as the airspeed suddenly displayed in the 130 knot range along with other erroneous readouts. At the same time I was trying to diagnose the situation, the Captain noticed the autopilot had commanded a descent. Realizing my computer was receiving bad data, controls were quickly transferred to the Captain, who turned off the automation and began to hand fly. In regaining positive aircraft control, our flight altitude reached 33,100 ft, but simultaneously we were also given a new heading and altitude clearance of FL390. The autopilot was commanded back on and the flight continued a normal climb using the Captain-side air data. During the climb, we discussed the situation and determined the First Officer static port had iced over and caused my computer to display wrong information. The system returned to normal once clear of the precipitation, and the aircraft control was later returned to the First Officer side after verifying read outs on both sides corresponded with each other. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis B737 flight crew reported that the First Officer experienced erroneous airspeed indications while flying through heavy rain.
Time / Day Date : 201708 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : C90.TRACON State Reference : IL Environment Flight Conditions : Marginal Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : C90 Make Model Name : Any Unknown or Unlisted Aircraft Manufacturer Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Flight Phase : Climb Flight Phase : Descent Flight Phase : Initial Approach Flight Phase : Cruise Route In Use : Vectors Airspace.CIass B : ORD Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Facility : C90.TRACON Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Approach Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1469590 Human Factors : Time Pressure Human Factors : Training / Qualification Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly Conflict : Airborne Conflict Anomaly.Deviation - Track / Heading : All Types Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result. General : Flight Cancelled / Delayed : 19 Result.FIight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.Air Traffic Control : Provided Assistance Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Result.Air Traffic Control : Separated Traffic
Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Contributing Factors / Situations : Staffing Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 I was vectoring when level 5 weather popped up near the west side of the airport. We were on west flow. I asked if we should really keep going into 3 full runways with weather like this. The response was "the tower says it doesn't look that bad out the window". Everyone started to go around. We had nowhere to go with all these planes with weather and so many in the airspace. No preemptive strike to help the situation. I believe part of the problem is that there were younger people, while all very skilled, were not sure what to do with the situation without getting in trouble or feeling they might. There were only CICs being utilized rather than a supervisor being in charge of the front line. There was an 0M on duty, although, one, I'm not sure if he was in the room, and two, he has really no idea what's going on. There were so many go arounds and no instructions as to what to do with all Of them, i.e. another runway, divert, etc. Many were minimum fuel. It was very frustrating and stressful. It seemed like survival of the fittest rather than any coordination or instruction being given. Also, monitors were never called for with extreme weather, even after everyone started going around. A supervisor should be in charge of the front line when there is only one in the room. Coordination should be done to lessen the arrivals with extreme weather in the area. CICs should be made aware that they can do what they need to for the safety of the aircraft coming rather than the "who am I going to be in trouble with" rather than slowing fixes and holding or coming off a runway, or two for that matter, with extreme weather. CICs are put in a bad position because they are unsure of what they can and can't do. Same as unsupervised mid shifts. Synopsis C90 Approach Controller reported that their sectors became overloaded and unorganized due to numerous weather related go-arounds combined with a lack of experienced controllers and supervision.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 0001-0600 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZZZ.Tower State Reference : US Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 3000 Environment Flight Conditions : IMC Weather Elements / Visibility : Turbulence Weather Elements / Visibility : Windshear Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Tower : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : EMB ERJ 170/175 ER/LR Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : GPS Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Initial Approach Airspace.Class B : ZZZ Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1468984 Human Factors : Workload Events Anomaly.Deviation - Speed : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Unstabilized Approach Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.GeneraI : Maintenance Action
Result.Flight Crew : Took Evasive Action Result.FIight Crew : Became Reoriented Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Weather Narrative: 1 Over the 10 DME fix on the ILS, we had a strong rain shaft at an 8 DME from the runway that we had to fly through which looked like it was stable but had very strong 20Kts+ windshear gain. Before we entered the PF (Pilot Flying) determined to try to get configured partially for the approach which is also SOP and I had no objections we selected Flaps 1 at 210kts and after they were set we entered the rain. As we descended I called out rising airspeed, at that time the PF already had Spoilers deployed and thrust levers at IDLE, he called for the gear after we couldn't stabilize the airspeed and reached around 237 kts before the gear was able to assist in slowing the aircraft. The flaps continued to work for the rest of the approach and had no issues getting on the ground. The weather was due to the developing Nor-Easter in the area and we were the first aircraft to report the 20kt+ gain on final. We could've called for the gear sooner when I noticed the speed increase but not sure if that would have even stopped the gain it jumped quickly and suddenly from 210 to 228 to 238. Synopsis An ERJ-175 pilot reported windshear at on final which resulted in a 20 kt increase. Speed brakes and landing gear were extended to regain a stable profile for landing.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 0001-0600 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZAU Airport State Reference : IL Aircraft Reference : X Make Model Name : Person Reference : 1 No Aircraft Location Of Person.Facility : ZAU.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Enroute Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1468502 Human Factors : Workload Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types : 25 Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control Result.Air Traffic Control : Separated Traffic Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Staffing Primary Problem : Staffing Narrative: 1 I returned from a break and looked at the "numbers" for BAE sector and showed a yellow 26 or 28, I can't remember. I saw there was no one on break and was assigned BAE sector to let that controller go home. I asked the Supervisor about the lack of staffing and the high traffic count coming up at BAE. [The Supervisor] said hold-overtime was not approved. I plugged in at BAE and was getting busy. I had asked for a D-side. It was getting much worse and needed help right away. I asked at least 5 times for a D-side. It took maybe 15 minutes or so before I got one. The sector was near out of control. We had [a nearby sector] traffic from the low Side. It was humid and aircraft were not climbing. Swap north was getting out of hand and departures opposite direction was a problem too. Most aircraft were complaining about chop/turbulence and was tying up the freq. I stopped taking hand-offs here and there from the low side and he couldn't take my hand-offs as a
result. Where is flow in all this! How about hold-overtime! We had plenty of people that went home. I never complain about working busy periods, I enjoy it. And I understand we need to move aircraft but this was a totally unsafe situation. I ended up 2.5 hours on the position. I completely lost track of time so times are approximate. Please really look into this. Better flow! Better management with traffic volume forecast! Synopsis ZAU Center Controller reported their session was out of control due to traffic and no flow control from the Traffic Management Unit.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.Airport : FOD.Airport State Reference : IA Relative Position.Angle.Radial : 010 Relative Position. Distance. Nautical Miles Altitude.MSL.SingIe Value : 800 Environment Flight Conditions : IMC Weather Elements / Visibility : Cloudy Weather Elements / Visibility.Visibility : Light : Daylight Ceiling.SingIe Value : 800 Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.CTAF : FOD Aircraft Operator : Personal Make Model Name : Small Aircraft, High Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Flight Plan : VFR Mission : Personal Flight Phase : Descent Route In Use : Direct Airspace.CIass E : FOD Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Personal Function.FIight Crew : Other / Unknown Qualification.FIight Crew : Commercial 10 Wing, I Eng, Fixed Gear Qualification.Flight Crew : Flight Instructor Qualification.FIight Crew : Instrument Experience. Flight Crew. Total : 800 Experience.Flight Crew.Last 90 Days : 20 Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 40 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1468179 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown. Partyl : Other Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew
Events Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : FAR Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Passenger When Detected : In-flight Result. Flight Crew : Landed As Precaution Result.Flight Crew : Became Reoriented Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Flying as an "extra set of eyes" for a pilot friend while enroute to Oshkosh, we inadvertently flew into a class E surface airport with weather below VFR minimums. When approximately 10-15 miles west of FOD, we picked up the AWOS weather and observed the field was barely above VFR minimums: 1000 ft Broken, 10 SM visibility. I pointed out to the pilot that there was an airport 10 miles northwest of our position that was reporting VFR, in case FOD went below minimums. The pilot elected to continue to FOD to take a look. After descending, we picked up the AWOS again and observed the clouds were now at 800 ft broken. Already being below the clouds and 2 miles from the airport, the pilot elected to continue and land at FOD. Looking back, this was probably the safer option at that point, already being under the cloud deck, but we never should have gotten to that in the first place. The landing was uneventful and we waited on the ground until the weather raised back to VFR minimums, and departed for the rest of our trip. Lessons learned: I should have been more forceful with the pilot on the suggestion of going to the alternate airport that was VFR. The pilot may not have understood that FOD was class E and the weather minimums associated with class E. It was ignorant to proceed into deteriorating weather, when a viable alternate was so close. Synopsis A flight instructor observer pilot reported not being assertive enough and allowed the pilot, who was presumably operating under VFR, to proceed to and land at an airport that was below VMC.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 0601-1200 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility : ZTL.ARTCC State Reference : GA Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 2400 Environment Flight Conditions : IMC Weather Elements / Visibility : Thunderstorm Weather Elements / Visibility : Rain Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Military Make Model Name : Military Operating Under FAR Part : Part 91 Mission : Tactical Flight Phase : Initial Approach Route In Use.STAR : Raggzl Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Facility : ZTL.ARTCC Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Enroute Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control.Radar : 23 Experience.Air Traffic Control. Time Certified In Pos I (yrs) : 23 Experience.Air Traffic Control.Time Certified In Pos 1 (mon) : 7 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1468164 Human Factors : Situational Awareness Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Track / Heading : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control When Detected : In-flight Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Procedure
Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Weather Narrative: 1 Weather that was depicting heavy to extreme precipitation impacted the Tiroe sector ZTL. The area of convective activity covered a 90 mile radius in the sector. There was no "clean air" we had aircraft inbound to ATL deviate to avoid the heavy thunderstorms. They deviated into the south departure sector and also the west departure sector. It was not possible for them to join the arrival from the south west. We coordinated headings with ATL approach A80. Our Traffic Management Unit (TMU) was informed by our Controller in Charge (CIC) that aircraft were requesting different arrival fixes. The other 3 arrival fixes and sectors in Z TL airspace had no weather at all. 2 Air carriers demanded a new arrival for safety. Our TMU responded by saying the air carriers could deviate. So we vectored aircraft to deviate north and rejoin the arrival when able. When the aircraft reached the Transfer Control Point (TCP) however the controllers at A80 said they had no knowledge of this plan and did not agree to it. Lack of communication between our TMU and A80 put the flying public safety at risk. Our TMU said that they put out a re-route to put the arrivals on other arrivals. However the aircraft were still purposely being routed into known convective activity on the arrival into ATL. No proactive measures were taken by our TMU to off-load arrivals to safe arrivals with no convective activity. The flying public was put at risk by this lack of action and planning. In the future when an arrival sector is covered in convective activity the aircraft should be re-routed to other arrivals. This was another example of how our management and TMU do NOT work to help the controllers of ZTL. Synopsis Atlanta Center Controller reported aircraft being cleared into known weather.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1801-2400 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ASE.Airport State Reference : CO Altitude.MSL.Single Value : 10000 Environment Flight Conditions : IMC Light : Dusk Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ASE Make Model Name : Commercial Fixed Wing Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use.Localizer/Glideslope/ILS : Runway 15 Flight Phase : Climb Airspace.CIass E : ASE Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1468132 Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1468135 Events Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Weight And Balance Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight
Result.Flight Crew : Executed Go Around / Missed Approach Result.FIight Crew : Diverted Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Weather Narrative: 1 Enroute to ASE we sent for landing data for Rwy 15 on a wet runway and the winds were roughly 270/12G19. The data came back and said we didn't have the required runway length necessary. We immediately asked dispatch to run the numbers as well and then referenced the flight release. Dispatch came back initially and said we should be good but they were going to check with their boss. The flight release said that we had more than enough runway. We decided to continue the approach. Somewhere around XTREM or TIKET we received a message from dispatch that said,"not legal to land, sorry." We executed the missed approach and started our climb to 14200 feet. Because of our speed and altitude I called for VfTO (Final Takeoff Speed) because we didn't have too far to climb and I didn't want to blow through our missed approach altitude. As we leveled we noticed the FMS didn't sequence. We verified on the FMA we were in GA mode but it wasn't sequencing. At that point we identified RIKOC and realized we were already passed it and turned immediately to a heading of 300. Because we exceeded 190 knots we had a wider turning radius and exceeded the 13.5 DME arc from DBL when we were intercepting the 303 course outbound. Because of the wide turn tower told us the MSA was 16000 feet and cleared us to maintain 16000 ft. We complied immediately. We only had 4100 lbs of fuel onboard and decided to divert to ZZZ. We requested direct to the airport and asked dispatch for the fuel burn and informed them of our intentions. They responded that ZZZ isn't a legal alternate because the tower is closed and we need to go to DEN. We started the turn towards DEN and then received word that ZZZ tower was open and we were good to go. We proceeded to ZZZ and landed without incident. I think that an 11 hour duty day is too much. There are too many factors that can get you behind and make it impossible to catch up without rushing. I think it would also be beneficial to do more training on the missed approach procedure for the LOC Rwy 15 from earlier on in the approach. It changes things quite a bit. We need to refine the new data because it is spitting out data that seems completely and utterly inaccurate and will completely tie our hands and create situations like this. That being said there was certainly mistakes made on my part that I haven't made before on this missed approach procedure. We had already briefed it three times that day but could have been more thorough. Many of the small but important details that were missed I think were due mostly to a long duty day with many distractions that took a toll on us mentally. We did identify our long day as a threat in the WANT briefing but didn't realize how big of a threat it was. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis Turbojet flight crew reported a missed approach due to the winds at ASE. The aircraft entered an area with a higher MSA due to a higher speed and greater turn radius.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZSPD.Airport State Reference : FO Environment Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC / Advisory.Center : ZSHA Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B787 Dreamliner Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Descent Person Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Relief Pilot Qualification. Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1468112 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Communication Breakdown.Party1 : Flight Crew Communication Breakdown.Party2 : ATC Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Fuel Issue Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification Result.FIight Crew : Diverted Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued New Clearance Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Weather Procedure Weather
Narrative: 1 I was the [relief pilot] on this flight. Just before the landing, the crew returned from break we updated weather and everything looked normal for arrival and landing into ZSPD. Once the landing crew got in their seats, PVG approach started to give us a speed reduction and then eventually a delay turn to the north. Approach was very vague on the reason other than traffic. We flew north for some time and queried why. Eventually they turned us back towards arrival and we were told number 2 for landing and the reason was weather. Our weather radar wasn't painting anything that caused us concern. Our fuel by this time was getting close to bingo however we were assured that they will get us right in as we told approach fuel was critical. Once on the arrival the controller said 35 minute delay. This was not going to work for us so we told controller we will fly direct to our alternate of ZZZZ. He gave us a vector that was not direct and held us at a lower altitude. We then [advised ATC] and flew direct ZZZZ and continued our climb. This was caused by a communication problem with the controller. It was late into the arrival before we realized it was a weather delay. The controller did not understand our fuel situation and continued to lead us on. Even after we [advised them of the severity of the situation] he tried to vector us and keep us down low. Unacceptable considering our fuel state. Controllers in Shanghai need to understand how to communicate with English carriers. The need to be very clear on the reasons for delays and real time expected delays. Dispatchers can help by being more proactive with information on flow into Shanghai and expected delays. As we pass the South Korean Peninsula it would be nice to know how things are looking on the arrival. It's easier to stop in Incheon for fuel than zzzz. Synopsis 3787 First Officer reported the controllers at ZSPD did not convey the actual delays to be expected during arrival, and did not expedite a clearance to the alternate after being advised of the low fuel state.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : DEN Airport State Reference : CO Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : VMC Weather Elements / Visibility Light : Daylight Aircraft Reference : X ATC/ Advisory.Tower : DEN Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier : Windshear Make Model Name : B737 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Takeoff Person Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification. Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (AT P) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1467710 : Workload Human Factors Confusion Human Factors : Human Factors : Distraction : Situational Awareness Human Factors Troubleshooting Human Factors : Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Weight And Balance Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Result.Flight Crew : Requested ATC Assistance / Clarification
Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Airport Contributing Factors / Situations : Chart Or Publication Contributing Factors / Situations : Company Policy Contributing Factors / Situations : Environment - Non Weather Related Contributing Factors / Situations : Procedure Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Weather Narrative: 1 Dispatch remarks field on SABRE flight plan for Flight DEN-ZZZ said, "planned bleeds off takeoff at 37 degrees off longer runway for best ATOG (Allowable Takeoff Gross Weight)". The Planned Weight/Maximum Allowable weights on the flight plan were 160446/166777 lbs. Release 2 was issued due to ZFW increase of 1800 pounds. The takeoff data requested at the gate was for runway 34L, bleeds off, planned TOW 161,300 lbs. SABRE returned a flaps I setting with max EPR (Engine Pressure Ratio) VI, Vr and V2 of 145, 158, 163. We had a discussion about the fact that the takeoff data message showed a reduced EPR line as a legal option. We decided using reduced EPR with bleeds off seemed ill-advised. Had we used this option, our v-speeds would have been higher at 152, 162, 166. On taxi out, we requested final takeoff data for runway 34L TOW 161,000 lbs. Again SABRE sent us flaps 1 with a reduced EPR option. We elected to use max EPR with its enhanced performance and lower v-speeds. I mentioned to the FO that in the previous three weeks out of Denver, we had been unable to extract anything other than flaps 1 bleeds off on runway 34L. An error was all we got, bleeds off, if other flap settings were requested. I also mentioned that I thought we had been very close to exceeding tire speed each time. In line for takeoff, ATC reported windshear and shifting winds on our runway. An aircraft gave a PIREP after takeoff that tailwinds were 16 kts until liftoff, when then shifted to a four kt headwind. The windsock was initially hidden by an aircraft body, but as we approached the number two position in line for takeoff, we saw very clearly that the sock showed a variable tailwind of 5-15 kts. We called up data for 34L with winds at 160/10. SABRE offered us flaps 5 bleeds off, with 10 kt tailwind. V-speeds were 134, 152, 157. We reset takeoff data and re-ran the checklists. The company aircraft ahead of us refused takeoff until more favorable winds developed. Tower seemed miffed at their reluctance to go, saying, "I said 25 kt GAIN on runway." In fact, as we waited in line, ATC was consistently reporting "wind shear alert, 25 kt gain on the runway." Sometimes the verbiage was "...25 kt gain over the numbers" for the landing runway 35R. At any rate, the aircraft in front was eventually satisfied the winds were acceptable. Tower cleared them for takeoff, reporting 34L winds as 360/9. Interestingly, the windsock clearly showed a tailwind. We were cleared for takeoff, with winds reported at 070/4. The windsock showed a slight tailwind. I had asked the FO to note our ground speed on liftoff. I was watching them also. At the Vr call, groundspeed was 192. At liftoff, groundspeed was 209. Rotation rate was normal, and the pitch at takeoff was 4.8. We wrote a logbook entry for the tire over speed. Clearly, the allowable TOW on both the SABRE flight plan and takeoff data messages do not take tire speeds into account. Had we carried the max allowable weight of 166,777 lbs (per flight plan), or 167,900 per takeoff data message, our tire speeds would've exceeded tire speeds even more. We mitigated our v-speeds as best we could (most of the time, out of Denver, only flaps I will work, but today we got lucky, I guess). Also, had we use
reduced EPR (an option given us, but not appropriate considering the windshear), our v- speeds would've been higher. I don't see how B737s can takeoff during summertime out of Denver (or any high altitude airport) at these "allowable" weights without grossly exceeding tire speed. In fact, I am sure tire overspeeds are routine. Synopsis 3737 Captain reported departing DEN Runway 34L during variable windshear conditions and recorded 192 kts at Vr, 209 kts at lift off with indicated airspeeds of 158 kts and 163 kts respectively. The maximum tire speed was exceeded.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 1201-1800 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Environment Flight Conditions : IMC Weather Elements / Visibility Ceiling.SingIe Value : 1800 Aircraft Reference : X : Turbulence ATC / Advisory.TRACON : ZZZ Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : EMB ERJ 170/175 ER/LR Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Initial Approach Airspace.CIass B : ZZZ Person : 1 Reference : I Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.FIight Crew : Captain Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.Flight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 7530 ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1467476 Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function. Flight Crew : First Officer Function.Flight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1467014 Human Factors : Confusion Human Factors : Distraction Human Factors : Training / Qualification
Events Anomaly.Deviation - Speed : All Types Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Unstabilized Approach Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : In-flight Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Human Factors Contributing Factors / Situations : Weather Primary Problem : Human Factors Narrative: 1 Descending through the ZZZZZ fix on the ILS approach, the First Officer (FO) was maintaining a speed of 210 Knots using Full Boards. We hit turbulence while descending through the clouds and the load factor increased and quickly the speed dropped and the stick shaker came on. I quickly called for the command of the controls and the FO quickly removed his hands from the controls. I then added power and lowered the nose and removed the boards to close and thus regain full control authority. I then re-intercepted the Glide Slope and then gave the controls back to the FO. I then continued with the gear and flap settings and by the 1000 feet call all was configured and by 500 was stable and the landing was spot on. I believe that I have been noticing a trend where the FOs do not really understand the use of flight boards, especially when inputting full amount. They seem to fixate on the descent and omit the visual indications such as the yellow band and incremental Pitch Limit Indicator (PLI). For some reason, these visual indications are either omitted or not used as an impending warning to probable events such as a stall. I notice that in almost every flight I have to discuss the use of Boards or in some cases I have had to assist in closing boards because the yellow band turned RED. In some cases FOs have taken the assist personally and have increased tension in the cockpit because in their perception the assist was taken as intrusion. I further believe that CRM has been taken out of context and has made FOs the premier Flying pilot that "is the sole manipulator of controls." For example, I had an FO, recently, who thought that having an EMB 190 type certificate made him loggable PIC when flying. They seem to look at themselves as PIC rather than first officers who are still flying and assisting the Captain. I believe this false sense of understanding, hierarchy, has misguided FOs and thus relied on a false sense of a pilot who never has the need to ask questions. I think that during training or Initial Operating Experience (IOE), the FO needs to be reminded of the need to keep learning and that just because they passed IOE is by no means an excuse to overlook the Captains experience. CRM should be shared information that allows for Safety but in some cases new FOs are relying less on sharing and more on acting as individuals in command authority when the sole manipulator of controls. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis
ERJ175 flight crew reported receiving a stick shaker warning when intercepting the glide slope from above with the speed brakes deployed.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 0001-0600 Place Locale Reference.Airport : ZZZ.Airport State Reference : US Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Weather Elements / Visibility Light : Night Aircraft Reference : X Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier : Thunderstorm Make Model Name : B737 Undifferentiated or Other Model Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Flight Phase : Parked Person : 1 Reference : 1 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : First Officer Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) Experience. Flight Crew. Type : 675 ASRS Report Number Accession Number : 1467408 Person : 2 Reference : 2 Location Of Person.Aircraft : X Location In Aircraft : Flight Deck Reporter Organization : Air Carrier Function.Flight Crew : Captain Function.FIight Crew : Pilot Not Flying Qualification.FIight Crew : Air Transport Pilot (ATP) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1467432 Events Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Other / Unknown Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Flight Crew
Were Passengers Involved In Event : Y When Detected : Aircraft In Service At Gate Result.Flight Crew : Diverted Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Ambiguous Narrative: 1 Airport Company Policy Human Factors Weather EDCT (Expected Departure Clearance Time) already in place for PHL. We discussed current weather/fuel state. Ops affirmed EDCT time and need for the gate. Dispatcher affirmed weather forecast and lack of alternate required (we were prior to forecast storms even with our delay) but we had contingency fuel to hold/divert if contingency arose. Enough for deviations but not likely a lengthy hold. Pushed and held in pad for approximately 25 minutes. Takeoff and flight through Western PA uneventful with some deviations for weather. Fuel burn matching Dispatch and continued flight deck efforts to fly efficiently while monitoring PHL. Saw cells via radar on arrival corridor but not on the field. Started hearing about arrivals 2-3 aircraft ahead of us going into hold and reviewed options for hold/divert if needed. IAD, BWI and others eliminated for obvious weather/saturation issues. PIT, ZZZ, EWR all discussed and weather obtained. No NOTAMS onboard for any of these due to not being an alternate. Asked dispatcher about those fields as well as supportability for 737-900 in ZZZ (most specifically the ability to takeoff with fuel/pax load). I have not been to ZZZ but looked adequate as I reviewed with the Captain. Dispatcher recommended ZZZ or EWR. Queried ATC about EWR or ZZZ being 0k for flow and weather. Was told EWR would not be good for flow but ZZZ was 0k. Found ZZZ in JeppFD-Pro and looked at Weather flow we had seen/expected. Of note, no 10-7 page but manual lists as category R for 737. ZZZ was north of the problematic weather and close enough to quickly get into PHL or deplane passengers if needed. No known issues as we could see it with any supportability. Landed at ZZZ without incident and went to the ramp area. ZZZ ATC asked of our intentions--we stated a refuel and go if weather/ATC allowed but we weren't sure if/when that would happen. We were marshaled by contract maintenance support to the southern tip of the ramp. Shut down, accomplished appropriate checklists, door opened with air stairs. Safe divert arrival and times passed to company. We were parked in the corner of the ramp, between 500 and 600 feet from gate where we would ultimately deplane. Some passengers immediately expressed an interest to deplane given proximity to PHL. Refuelers and air stairs were prompt. We were initially told approximately an hour until a bus available but the local personnel were working on it while we looked into legality/security from the Company standpoint. We had some concerns/questions about checked bags continuing without their associated passengers in the aircraft and wanted to consult with Operations and our publications. Stipulation would be no checked bags removed and those that deplaned would not get back on. We were to ask about how many wanted off and provide a number for accountability and load planning. The Captain passed this to the passengers and continued to make calls toward that effort. Simultaneously worked with dispatch to obtain new flight plan and determine refuel
amount. Gas provided but receipt was not on standard sheet. Provided that printout and fueler went with air stairs and paperwork to another flight that had also diverted. No frequencies or phone numbers for operations but eventually obtained them from a dispatcher who happened to be onboard our aircraft. Took at least 20 minutes to hear from anyone. The other flight appeared a priority. Ops/ramp Member hooked back up. We passed 55 people wanted off. Also learned from security/police that no one could walk across the ramp, that transportation was required. Local operations also given official on/in times for planning purposes. We were still under the impression productive efforts were being made to obtain transportation. We made it clear to multiple ZZZ personnel that any options were fine-- multiple trips via minivan vs one size fits all bus if it would enable deplaning sooner than later. The next time the stair came up some 30 minutes later we were told by Contract lead no one could deplane due to lack of a tail stand per her supervisor who was not yet present but allegedly coming into work. We asked about deplaning from back to front, or even using the aft doors, as this was beginning to take on a sense of urgency. The lead stated that her supervisor would not allow it until at the 3 hour point when we had to per DOT (Department of Transportation) guidelines. This seemed to drive a reduction in timeline management by local operations who felt they had more time to devise a viable solution, but didn't seem to think how long it would take to execute a plan for 55-181 souls depending on the situation. Security officer reinforced that under NO circumstances were people walking across the ramp despite the fact that he personally understood our plight. We received no completed fuel sheet so I approximated using fuel levels in our tanks and total gallons (provided on the original sheet so we could insert into ACARS). Completed the walk around and continued to make any available pre-flight preparations if there was a break in the weather. However efforts continued to accommodate passengers wishing to deplane, particularly between Captain and Operations. PHL continues on a ground stop and storms continue from the east. Also told that ATC is not taking flights above 10K over ZZZ. Our assessment remained that a second divert was very likely given the weather and it was not fair to passengers to do that. CA made numerous calls to dispatch and Operations relaying situation. Local ops was non responsive about deplaning or transportation updates, making it nearly impossible to make PA announcements to the passengers but the Captain did his best. No information provided by dispatch or ATC about whether anyone was able to land in PHL so we had to go with our judgment as pilots looking at the radar and the forecast coupled with ground stop information. We were told of an extended PHL ground stop until at least 45 minutes from now so we turned our primary attention to deplaning passengers. Captain passed this plan to Operations as best as I can recall. Throughout tarmac delay, the passengers had appropriate temperatures, food, water, and lav access at all times. Flight attendants did a great job accommodating while informing us of questions/concerns. While on a lav break, I personally and publicly inquired about temps and engaged with a couple customers up in first class area. The only thing they could not do was deplane, which was increasingly frustrating to them and us. We provided updates every 10-15 minutes but those often were that we were waiting back for answers. Near the end of our delay we were informed one passenger was suffering a panic attack, but that apparently subsided with interaction from the flight attendant and the security official who happened to be on the aircraft at the time (second/final air stair usage in remote parking). No Medlink or other efforts seemed warranted other than expediting the stalled deplaning process. We also anticipated there would be a crew duty day limitation about the time the weather could break and discussed those ramifications as well. That information was passed to Operations and scheduling. Just prior to timeout and as we
were approaching the 3 hour point, We received word that ATC approved us to go quickly to PHL but there was a 40K cell 5-10 miles west of their field, making successful arrival to PHL unlikely. We focused our efforts on deplaning passengers discussing the need to deplane if departure was doubtful at 2+15. Due to inaction from ZZZ ops/security, Captain directed that we would move the aircraft to gate. Despite ops understanding this final decision, and no other activity on the ramp, it took 15 minutes to get the airstairs removed so we could safely start engines. We accomplished checklists, sat passengers, started both engines and taxied to the gate. Then, jet bridge broke and would not extend to the aircraft front door. We had to reseat everyone again and push back the aircraft 3-5 feet to use the same air stairs walking across the same ramp, some 175 yards closer. In total, it took 45 minutes from decision to move the aircraft to deplaning passengers. Narrative: 2 [Report narrative contained no additional information.] Synopsis 8737 flight crew reported a weather diversion that resulted in a long delay and difficulties deplaning the passengers due to airport rules and equipment availability.
Time / Day Date : 201707 Local Time Of Day : 0001-0600 Place Locale Reference.ATC Facility State Reference : DC Altitude.AGL.Single Value : O Environment Flight Conditions : Marginal Weather Elements / Visibility Light : Night Aircraft : 1 Reference : X ATC / Advisory. Tower : IAD Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier : IAD.Tower : Windshear Make Model Name : B737 Next Generation Undifferentiated Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Taxi Aircraft : 2 Reference : Y ATC / Advisory.Tower : IAD Aircraft Operator : Air Carrier Make Model Name : B737 Next Generation Undifferentiated Crew Size.Number Of Crew : 2 Operating Under FAR Part : Part 121 Flight Plan : IFR Mission : Passenger Nav In Use : FMS Or FMC Flight Phase : Landing Airspace.CIass B : IAD Person Reference : I Location Of Person.FaciIity : IAD.Tower Reporter Organization : Government Function.Air Traffic Control : Local Qualification.Air Traffic Control : Fully Certified Experience.Air Traffic Control.Time Certified In Pos 1 (yrs) ASRS Report Number.Accession Number : 1467288 Human Factors : Communication Breakdown Human Factors : Distraction
Human Human Human Human Human Factors Factors Factors Factors Factors : Fatigue : Situational Awareness : Time Pressure : Workload : Human-Machine Interface Communication Breakdown.Party1 : ATC Communication Breakdown.Party2 : Flight Crew Events Anomaly.ATC Issue : All Types Anomaly.Conflict : Ground Conflict, Less Severe Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Published Material / Policy Anomaly.Deviation - Procedural : Clearance Anomaly.Ground Incursion : Runway Anomaly.lnflight Event / Encounter : Weather / Turbulence Detector. Person : Air Traffic Control Detector. Person : Flight Crew When Detected : Taxi Result.FIight Crew : Returned To Clearance Result.Air Traffic Control : Issued Advisory / Alert Assessments Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Contributing Factors / Situations : Primary Problem : Procedure Narrative: 1 I was working LCI [Locall], LC2, Procedure Human Factors Weather Staffing and LC3 combined at the time of the event. The position was combined at LC3 which faces the west side of the airport. This configuration makes working the east side of the airport (RWYIR/19L) difficult. I also had planes on 2 separate frequencies 120.1 which is LCI frequency and 134.42 which is LC3 frequency. This also creates confusion and potential for transmissions being stepped on. There was weather in the area with a thunderstorm over the airport. This added complexity and extra focus necessary to issue weather updates, wind shear alerts, and RVR [Runway Visual Range] readings. I have received many briefings in the last year stressing how important weather dissemination is. This was my major focus during this event which could have lead me to get tunnel vision. I had Aircraft X number I for RWY IR and Aircraft Y number 2 for RWY IR. Both planes were cleared to land and given weather advisories. I was working a departure in position on RWY 30 that was given weather information and was holding in position looking at the weather and deciding if they were able to depart. My attention was on the weather and trying to give accurate information and watching the TDWR [Terminal Doppler Weather Radar] for new wind shear readings because it was continuously changing. Aircraft X had safely landed and missed the last high speed exit (K2) so I instructed them to turn left Jl. At this time Aircraft Y was on a 1.5 mile final and with the speed of Aircraft X continuing down the runway I did not think timing would be a factor. The visibility was drastically reduced and the end of the runway was not visible from the tower. I was relying now on
the ASDE-X [Airport Surface Detection Equipment] to insure that Aircraft X had cleared the runway. I saw what I believed to be Aircraft X committed to the KI exit while Aircraft Y was short final and I allowed them to continue. The Controller in Charge saw Aircraft X's target still on the ASDE-X now at JI and instructed me to send Aircraft Y around. I issued go around to Aircraft Y and it was too late he had already crossed the landing threshold and responded that they "had already touched down". I then realized my mistake of issuing Aircraft X to turn off the runway at JI instead of KI which caused confusion to the pilot because JI is 500 feet farther down the runway. I believe Aircraft X was exiting the runway at KI and realized he made the wrong turn and then turned back to comply with my exiting instructions of Jl. This event happened because of an incorrect runway exiting instruction, weather at the airport, the position being combined due to lack of staffing and not recognizing a developing situation due to fatigue. I recommend that when weather is a factor and adds complexity to workload that LCI be separate from LC2 and LC3 and worked from the proper position in the tower. The tower was improperly staffed and I believe with holdover overtime this event could have been prevented. Synopsis IAD Tower Controller reported that a flight crew missed the taxiway turnoff, turned around to exit, causing aircraft on final to be sent around. Instruction was too late and aircraft landed on occupied runway.
